                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Quick Care Guide                                                             
       Here are the most common healthcare terms and how they affect what you pay for covered services. There are
       also examples to show how these terms fit together.                          
                                                                                    
       To learn more about amounts you are responsible for, visit the Covered Services section.
                                                                                    
        Allowed Amount                                                              
                           The maximum amount Premera pays for a covered service.   
        Benefit Dollar Maximum                                                      
                           The most that Premera pays for certain benefits within a year. After the limit is
                           met, you pay 100% of costs out of pocket.                
                           Amounts that apply to your deductible don’t count toward your dollar maximums
        Coinsurance                                                                 
                           It’s a percentage of the allowed amount that you pay for the service. You start
                           paying coinsurance after you’ve met your deductible.     
        Copay                                                                       
                           A fixed amount you pay for each healthcare visit or service. If the amount billed is
        or                                                                          
                           less than the copay, you only pay the amount billed. Only one office visit copay
        Copayment                                                                   
                           per provider per day will apply. If the copay amounts are different, the highest will
                           apply. Copays apply to the out-of-pocket maximum.        
        Cost shares                                                                 
                           Your share of the allowed amount for covered services. Deductibles, copays, and
                           coinsurance are all types of cost-shares. If you go out-of-network for care, the
                           provider can charge additional amounts, except as prohibited by federal or state
                           law.                                                     
        Deductible                                                                  
                           The amount you pay each year before Premera starts to pay for covered
                           services. The deductible includes an Individual and a Family Deductible.
                           If you and one or more of your dependents are enrolled in this plan, the family
                           deductible will apply. If any one member satisfies the individual deductible
                           amount, this plan will begin paying for that member’s covered services. When
                           other members satisfy the family deductible, we will consider the family
                           deductible to have been met. Then, this plan will begin paying for all family
                           members’ covered services. This type of deductible is called “embedded”.
                           Deductibles are subject to the following:                
                           • Amounts credited toward the deductible will not exceed the allowed amount.
                           • Amounts credited toward the deductible do not add to benefits with an annual
                             dollar maximum.                                        
                           • Amounts credited toward the deductible accrue to benefits with visit limits.
                           Amounts that don’t accrue toward the deductible are:     
                           • Amounts that exceed the allowed amount.                
                           • Charges for excluded services.                         
                           • Copays                                                 
                           • If you participate in a Health Savings Account (HSA) – Drug manufacturer
                             coupons and other forms of cost-share assistance, per Internal Revenue
                             Service requirements.                                  
                           There is no carry-over provision. Amounts credited to your deductible during the
                           current calendar year will not carry forward to the next calendar year deductible.
        In-Network                                                                  
                           Specific providers, hospitals, or labs that Premera contracts with to provide
        (Contracted)                                                                
                           healthcare services to members. You typically pay less when using in-network
                           healthcare providers. Your bills will be reimbursed at a higher percentage. In-
                           network providers will not charge you more than the allowed amount.
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)           8                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
        Out-of-Network                                                              
                           Services from healthcare providers and hospitals that have not contracted with
        (Non-Contracted)                                                            
                           Premera Blue Cross, Premera Blue Cross Blue Shield of Alaska, or the local Blue
                           Cross Blue Shield licensee. This could mean the service will cost more or not be
                           paid for at all by Premera. Your bills will be reimbursed at a lower percentage and
                           you may also be required to submit the claim yourself.   
        Out-of-Pocket Maximum                                                       
                           The out-of-pocket maximum is the most you pay for covered services in a year
                           before Premera pays 100% of the allowed amount. The out-of-pocket maximum
                           includes an Individual and a Family Out-of-Pocket Maximum.
                           However, if you get out-of-network care, you are still responsible for any charges
                           above the allowed amount, except as prohibited by state or federal law.
                           Expenses that do not apply toward the out-of-pocket maximum include, but not
                           limited to:                                              
                           • Charges above the allowed amount.                      
                           • Services above any benefit maximum limit or durational limit.
                           • Services not covered by this plan.                     
                           • Services from out-of-network providers, except as prohibited by state or federal
                             law.                                                   
                           • Covered services that do not apply to the out-of-pocket maximum as stated in
                             Covered Services.                                      
                           • If you participate in a Health Savings Account (HSA) – Drug manufacturer
                             coupons and other forms of cost-share assistance, per Internal Revenue
                             Service requirements.                                  
        Prior Authorization                                                         
                           Some services must be authorized in writing before you get them, in order to be
                           eligible for coverage. The conditions, time limits and maximum limits are
                           described in this booklet.                               
        Visit, day, or hour limits                                                  
                           Some covered services have a maximum number of visits, days, or hours. After
                           you reach this limit, you pay 100% out-of-pocket, whether or not you’ve met your
                           deductible.                                              
        Year                                                                        
                           The consecutive 12-month period that starts on your health plan’s effective date.
                           For this plan, it’s a calendar year.                     
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)           9                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Overview                                                                     
                                                                                    
       This plan is an Exclusive Provider Organization (EPO). This means that the plan is designed to only cover care
       delivered by providers in your plan’s network. Your plan provides you benefits for covered services from providers
       within the Individual Signature network. You do not need a referral for specialty care. You may self-refer to in-
       network providers, including obstetricians, gynecologists, and pediatricians.
       You have coverage for emergency services throughout the United States and wherever you may travel.
       This plan makes available to you a sufficient number and types of providers to give you access to all covered
       services in compliance with applicable Washington state regulations governing access to providers. Our provider
       network includes hospitals, physicians, and a variety of other types of providers. See How Providers Affect Your
       Costs for more information.                                                  
       Copay                                                                        
                                        In-Network Providers Out-of-Network Providers
                                                                                    
                                        No charge first 2 visits; then              
         Primary Care Provider copay                        *Not covered            
                                        $15 copay, deductible waived                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         Specialist copay               $45 copay, deductible waived *Not covered   
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Coinsurance                                                                  
                                                                                    
                                        In-Network Providers Out-of-Network Providers
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                        30%                 *Not covered            
                                                                                    
       *See Benefits For Out-of-Network or Non-Contracted Providers for out-of-network services that will always be
       covered at the in-network level of benefits.                                 
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Deductible                                                                   
                                        In-Network Providers Out-of-Network Providers
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         Individual deductible          $1,500              Not applicable          
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         Family deductible (embedded)   $3,000              Not applicable          
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Out-of-Pocket-Maximum                                                        
                                                                                    
                                        In-Network Providers Out-of-Network Providers
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         Individual out-of-pocket maximum $6,800            Not applicable          
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          10                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         Family out-of-pocket maximum   $13,600             Not applicable          
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       How  Cost Shares Work                                                        
                                                                                    
       Example: In-Network Office Visit                                             
       An in-network office visit costs $120, the allowed amount for the service is $100, and your coinsurance is 20% of
       the $100, or $20. If you’ve met your deductible, Premera pays 80% of the $100, or $80. You pay the remaining
       $20.                                                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
          Office visit Allowed amount Your coinsurance Premera pays Your total      
           charges                                           responsibility         
            $120         $100         $20           $80         $20                 
                                  (20% of the allowed (80% of the                   
                                     amount)    allowed amount)                     
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          11                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Getting Care                                                                 
                                                                                    
       No ID card yet? No problem. As long as your plan date is effective, you can get care:
          • The provider’s office can often look up your insurance and see that you’re eligible.
          • Download the Premera mobile app to get a digital ID card.               
            iPhone and Android users can get the app from the Apple or Google Play App Store
                                                                                    
          • Call Premera customer service at 1-800-607-0546 for your ID number.     
                                                                                    
         You can see or call   When you need              What to do                
                                                                                    
        Primary and specialty                     Log in to premera.com and click “Find
              care          Routine and specialty care Care”. You can search by name, type,
            providers                                     or location.              
                          A visit with a provider, counselor, or Set up your account at
                         psychiatrist without going to an office. www.premera.com/visitor/virtual-care,
            Virtual care Have your appointment by computer, then connect any day, any time,
                         tablet, or mobile device wherever you including weekends and holidays.
                                   are.           Call customer service for assistance.
                          Same-day care for medical issues Log in to premera.com and click “Find
                         that need urgent attention but are not Care”.              
         Urgent Care/Walk-in                                                        
                          life threatening. Examples include, Choose "Urgent Care & Other
              clinic                                                                
                          rashes, flu, minor burns or cuts, x- Facilities” to search for locations
                               rays, and lab tests.      closest to you.            
         Emergency services Life-threatening emergency services Call 911 or go to an emergency room.
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                          Advice from a registered nurse for                        
                                                  Call 1-800-784-9265 (open 24 hours a
         24-Hour NurseLine illnesses like fevers, the flu, and                      
                                                      day, seven days a week).      
                                minor injuries.                                     
       Important Plan Information                                                   
       Primary Care Office Visits                                                   
       You pay a lower office visit cost share for primary care office visits by selecting a PCP any time prior to an office
       visit. A list of network providers including PCPs and specialists is available by contacting customer experience or
       accessing the Premera website. Your PCP must be in the network and be one of the following provider types:
       • Family practice physician                                                  
       • General practice provider                                                  
       • Geriatric practice provider                                                
       • Gynecologist                                                               
                                                                                    
       • Internist                                                                  
       • Naturopath                                                                 
       • Nurse practitioner                                                         
       • Obstetrician                                                               
       • Pediatrician                                                               
       • Physician Assistant                                                        
                                                                                    
       You do not need a referral from your PCP to see a specialist.                
       We encourage you to select a PCP at the time you enroll in this plan. If you have difficulty locating an available
       PCP, contact us and we will assign you to one of the provider types listed above who is accepting new patients.
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          12                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       This provider will be your PCP, unless you decide to change to another provider. If your PCP is part of a group
       practice, you can see any provider type listed above in that practice and pay the PCP office visit cost share.
       You can change your PCP selection at any time by contacting us.              
       Please call customer service for more information about selecting a PCP and to provide us with your selection.
       Urgent care, telehealth, preventive, and specialty visits are not included. All other covered services provided by
       your selected PCP during the primary care office visit are subject to standard cost shares. For example, if you
       select a PCP and see that PCP for a cut that needs stitches, you will pay the PCP cost share for the office visit
       and will pay your plan's deductible and/or coinsurance for the stitching procedure. If you do not select a PCP, your
       office visit cost share will not be the PCP cost share amount.               
       Allowed Amount                                                               
                                                                                    
       This plan provides benefits based on the allowed amount for covered services. We reserve the right to determine
       the amount allowed for any given service or supply. The allowed amount is described below.
       In-Network                                                                   
       The allowed amount is the fee that we have negotiated with providers who have signed contracts with us and are
       in your provider network.                                                    
       Out-of-Network                                                               
                                                                                    
       For contracted providers the allowed amount is the fee that we have negotiated with providers who have signed
       contracts with us.                                                           
       For non-contracted providers and non-emergent care, the allowed amount is the least of the following (unless a
       different amount is required under applicable law or agreement):             
       • An amount that is no less than the lowest amount we pay for the same or similar service from a comparable
         provider that has a contracting agreement with us.                         
       • 125% of the fee schedule determined by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (Medicare), if
         available.                                                                 
       • The provider's billed charges. Note: Ground ambulances are always paid based on billed charges.
       See Out-of-Area Care for more detail about providers outside Washington who have agreements with other Blue
       Cross Blue Shield Licensees.                                                 
                                                                                    
       Non-Emergency Services Protected From Balance Billing                        
       For these services, the allowed amount is calculated consistent with the requirements of federal or Washington
       state law.                                                                   
       Emergency Services                                                           
                                                                                    
       The allowed amount for non-participating providers will be calculated consistent with the requirements of federal
       or Washington state law.                                                     
       You do not have to pay amounts over the allowed amount for emergency services delivered by non-participating
       providers or facilities.                                                     
       Note: Non-participating ground ambulances are always paid based on billed charges.
                                                                                    
       If you have questions about this information, please call us at the number listed on your Premera ID card.
       Air Ambulance                                                                
       The allowed amount for non-participating air ambulance providers will be calculated consistent with the
       requirements of federal law.                                                 
       Providers Outside Washington                                                 
                                                                                    
       When you receive services and supplies in Clark County Washington or outside Washington. Covered services
       and supplies for medical emergencies can be furnished by any providers that meet the following requirements.
       • State-licensed or state-certified                                          
       • Performing services within the scope of their license or certification     
       If, by chance, you get emergency care from a provider that has a provider agreement with us in Alaska or the
       local Blue Cross and/or Blue Shield Licensee through the BlueCard® Program, your out-of-pocket expenses
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          13                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       may be reduced. This is because those providers accept the allowable charge for a covered service as payment
       in full. When you receive covered emergency care from one of these in-network providers, you're responsible
       only for any deductible, copays, or coinsurance required by this plan.       
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       How  Providers Affect Your Costs                                             
                                                                                    
       MEDICAL SERVICES                                                             
       This plan is an Exclusive Provider Organization (EPO). This means that the plan is designed to only cover care
       delivered by providers in your plan’s network. Your plan provides you benefits for covered services from providers
       within the Individual Signature network. You do not need a referral for specialty care. You may self-refer to in-
       network providers, including obstetricians, gynecologists and pediatricians. 
       A list of in-network providers is available in our Individual Signature provider directory. These providers are listed
       by geographical area, specialty and in alphabetical order to help you select a provider that is right for you.
       The provider directory also shows which providers you can select as your PCP. You can receive the lower copay
       amount on primary care office visit copays by selecting a designated Primary Care Provider (PCP) and notifying
       us of your PCP selection any time prior to an office visit. If you are having difficulty choosing an available PCP,
       contact us and we will assign a PCP to you. See Primary Care Office Visits for more information.
       We update this directory regularly, but it is subject to change. We suggest that you call us for current information
       and to verify that your provider, their office location, or provider group is included in the Individual Signature
       network before you receive services.                                         
       Individual Signature provider network directories are available any time on our website. You may also request a
       copy of this directory by calling customer service at the number located in Contact Information or on your
       Premera ID card.                                                             
       In-Network Providers                                                         
                                                                                    
       In-network providers are networks of hospitals, physicians and other providers that are part of our Individual
       Signature network in Washington or that are part of the local Blue Cross Blue Shield licensee. These providers
       provide medical services at a negotiated fee. This fee is the allowed amount for in-network providers.
       You do not need a referral from your PCP to see an in-network provider.      
       In-network providers will not charge more than the allowed amount. This means that your portion of the charges
       for covered services will be lower.                                          
       Contracted Health Care Benefit Managers                                      
                                                                                    
       The list of Premera’s contracted Health Care Benefit Managers (HCBM) and the services they manage are
       available at https://www.premera.com/visitor/partners-vendors and changes to these contracts or services are
       reflected on the website within 30 business days.                            
       Non-Participating Providers                                                  
       Non-participating providers are either (1) providers that are not in one of the networks (out-of-network) or (2)
       providers that do not have a contract with us (non-contracted). Except as stated in Benefits For Out-of-Network
       or Non-Contracted Providers, or in a few specific benefits, services from these providers are not covered.
       • Out-of-network providers. Some providers in Washington have a contract with us but are not in the Individual
         Signature network. In cases where this plan covers services from these providers, they will not bill you for the
         amount above the allowed amount for a covered service. The same is true for a provider that is in a different
         network of the local Host Blue plan.                                       
       • Non-contracted providers. There are also providers who do not have a contract with us. These providers are
         called “non-contracted” providers in this booklet.                         
       Benefits For Out-of-Network or Non-Contracted Providers                      
                                                                                    
       The following covered services and supplies provided by out-of-network or non-contracted providers will always
       be covered:                                                                  
       • Emergency services for a medical emergency. (See the Definitions section for definitions of these terms.) This
         plan provides worldwide coverage for emergency services.                   
         The benefits of this plan will be provided for covered emergency services without the need for any prior
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          14                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         authorization and without regard as to whether the health care provider furnishing the services has a contract
         with us. Emergency services furnished by a non-participating provider will be reimbursed in compliance with
         applicable laws.                                                           
       • Services associated with admission by an in-network provider to an in-network hospital that are provided by
         hospital-based providers.                                                  
       • Facility and hospital-based provider services received from a hospital that has a provider contract with us.
       If a covered service is not available from an in-network provider, you can receive benefits for services provided by
       an out-of-network or non-contracted provider. However, you or your in-network provider must request this before
       you get the care. See Prior Authorization for details.                       
       BALANCE BILLING PROTECTION                                                   
                                                                                    
       Non-participating providers have the right to charge you more than the allowed amount for a covered service. This
       is called "surprise billing" or "balance billing". However, Washington state and federal law protects you from
       balance billing for:                                                         
       Emergency Services from a non-participating hospital, or facility, or from a non-participating provider at the
       hospital or facility.                                                        
       Emergency services include certain post-stabilization services you may get after you are in stable condition.
       These include covered services provided as part of outpatient observation or during an inpatient or outpatient stay
       related to the emergency visit, regardless of which department of the hospital you are in.
       Non-emergency Services from a non-participating provider at an in-network hospital or outpatient surgery
       center. If a non-emergency service is not covered under the in-network benefits and terms of coverage under your
       health plan, then the federal and state law regarding balance billing do not apply for these services.
       Air Ambulance                                                                
                                                                                    
       Your cost-sharing for non-participating air ambulance services shall be no more than if the services were provided
       by an in-network provider. The cost sharing amount shall be counted towards the in-network deductible and the
       in-network out of pocket maximum amount. Cost-sharing shall be based upon the lesser of the qualifying payment
       amount (as defined under federal law) or the billed amount.                  
       For the above services, you will pay no more than the plan's in-network cost-shares. Premera Blue Cross will
       work with the non-participating provider to resolve any issues about the amount paid. Premera will also send the
       plan's payments to the provider directly.                                    
       Note: Amounts you pay over the allowed amount don’t count toward any applicable calendar year deductible,
       coinsurance, or out-of-pocket maximum.                                       
                                                                                    
       Care Management                                                              
       Care Management services work to help ensure that you receive appropriate and cost-effective medical care.
       Your role in the Care Management process is simple, but important, as explained below.
       You must be eligible on the dates of service and services must be medically necessary. We encourage you to call
       customer service to verify that you meet the required criteria for claims payment and to help us identify
       admissions that might benefit from case management.                          
                                                                                    
       PRIOR AUTHORIZATION                                                          
       You must get Premera’s approval for some services before the service is performed, or you will not have
       coverage for the service. This process is called prior authorization.        
       There are two different types of prior authorization required:               
                                                                                    
       1. Prior Authorization For Benefit Coverage You must get prior authorization for certain types of medical
          services, equipment, and for most inpatient facility stays. This is so that Premera can confirm that these
          services are medically necessary and covered by the plan.                 
       2. Prior Authorization To Cover Out-of-Network Providers at In-Network Cost Shares You or your in-
          network provider must get prior authorization in order for an out-of-network provider to be covered at the
          plan’s in-network benefit level, except for emergency services. See Exceptions To Prior Authorization For
          Out-of-Network Providers below for more information.                      
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          15                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       How Prior Authorization Works                                                
       We will make a decision on a request for services that require prior authorization in writing within 5 calendar days
       of receipt of all information necessary to make the decision. The response will let you know whether the services
       are authorized or not, including the reasons why. If you disagree with the decision, you can ask for an appeal. See
       Complaints and Appeals.                                                      
       If your life or health would be in serious jeopardy if you did not receive treatment right away, you may ask for an
       expedited review. We will respond in writing as soon as possible, but no more than 48 hours after we get all the
       information we need to make a decision.                                      
       Our prior authorization will be valid for 90 calendar days. This 90-day period depends on your continued coverage
       under the plan. If you do not receive the services within that time, you will have to ask us for another prior
       authorization.                                                               
       1. Prior Authorization for Benefit Coverage                                  
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
          Medical Services, Supplies or Equipment                                   
          The plan has a list of services, equipment, and facility types that must have prior authorization before you
          receive the service or are admitted as an inpatient at the facility. Please contact your in-network provider or
          Premera customer service before you receive a service to find out if your service requires prior authorization.
          • In-network providers or facilities are required to request prior authorization for the service.
          • Out-of-network providers and facilities and facilities outside Washington and Alaska will not request
            prior authorization for the service. You have to ask Premera to prior authorize the service.
           If you do not ask for prior authorization, this plan will not cover your services. You will have
           to pay the total cost of the services. These costs do not count toward your plan deductible or out-of-
           pocket maximum.                                                          
                                                                                    
          Prescription Drugs                                                        
          The plan has a specific list of prescription drugs that must have prior authorization before you get them at a
          pharmacy. The list is on our website at premera.com. Your provider can ask for a prior authorization by faxing
          an accurately completed prior authorization form to us. This form is also on the pharmacy section of our
          website.                                                                  
          If your provider does not get prior authorization, when you go to the pharmacy to get your prescription, the
          pharmacy will tell you that you need it. You or your pharmacy should inform your provider of the need for
          prior authorization. Your provider can fax us an accurately completed prior authorization form for review.
          The plan may cover a small supply of the drug to allow more time for the prior authorization. The cost-shares
          shown in Covered Services will apply. In-Network pharmacies will find out if an emergency fill is covered for
          your drug. The authorized amount of the emergency fill will be no more than the prescribed amount, up to a
          seven-day supply or the minimum packaging size available at the time the emergency fill is dispensed. See
          the process for emergency fills on our website at premera.com.            
          If an emergency fill is not allowed for your drug, you can still buy the drug before it is prior authorized, but
          you must pay the full cost. If the drug is authorized after you bought it, you can send us a claim for
          reimbursement. Reimbursement will be based on the allowed amount. See How Do I File A Claim? for
          details.                                                                  
          Sometimes, benefits for some prescription drugs may be limited to one or more of the following:
          • A set number of days’ supply or a specific drug or drug dosage appropriate for a usual course of treatment.
          • Certain drugs for a specific diagnosis                                  
          • Certain drugs from certain pharmacies, or you may need to get a prescription drug from an appropriate
            medical specialist or a specific provider                               
          • Step therapy, meaning you must try a generic drug or a specified brand name drug first
           • Drug synchronization, meaning the coordination of medication refills for a patient taking two or more
            medications for a chronic condition such that the patient’s medications are refilled on the same schedule
            for a given time period. Cost-shares are adjusted if the fill is less than the standard refill amount in
            compliance with state law.                                              
           These limits are based on medical standards, the drug maker’s advice, and your specific case. They are also
           based on FDA guidelines and medical articles and papers.                 
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          16                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
          Exceptions to Prior Authorization for Benefit Coverage                    
          The following services do not require prior authorization for benefit coverage, but they have separate
          requirements:                                                             
          • The first six visits provided by an in-network provider for rehabilitation and habilitation therapy, spinal
            manipulative treatment or acupuncture.                                  
          • Emergency services and emergency hospital admissions, including emergency drug or alcohol detox in a
            hospital.                                                               
          • Services provided under involuntary commitment statutes are covered.    
          • Childbirth admission to a hospital, or admissions for newborns who need emergency medical care at birth.
                                                                                    
          Emergency and childbirth hospital admissions do not require prior authorization, but you must notify us as
          soon as reasonably possible.                                              
                                                                                    
       2. Prior Authorization for Out-of-Network Provider Coverage                  
          Generally, non-emergent care provided by out-of-network providers is covered at a lower benefit level.
          However, you or your in-network provider may ask for a prior authorization to cover the out-of-network
          provider at the in-network benefit level if the services are medically necessary and only available from an
          out-of-network provider. You or your in-network provider must ask for prior authorization before you receive
          the services. You will need to reach out to your in-network provider to have them submit the appropriate
          forms. You may also initiate the process yourself by calling the toll-free customer support number on the
          back of your ID card.                                                     
          Note: It is your responsibility to get prior authorization for any services that require it when you see
          a provider that is out-of-network. If you do not get a prior authorization, the services will not be
          covered at the in-network benefit level. The provider can bill you directly, and you will have to pay the
          total cost of the services. These costs do not count toward your plan deductible and out-of-pocket
          maximum.                                                                  
          The prior authorization request for an out-of-network provider must include the following:
          • A statement explaining how the provider has unique skills or provides unique services that are medically
            necessary for your care, and that are not reasonably available from an in-network provider, and
          • Medical records needed to support the request.                          
           If the out-of-network services are authorized, the plan will cover the service. However, in addition to the
           cost shares, you may pay any amounts over the allowed amount if the provider does not have a
           contract with us or the local Blue Cross and/or Blue Shield Licensee. Amounts over the allowed
           amount do not count toward your plan deductible and out-of-pocket maximum.
                                                                                    
           Exceptions to Prior Authorization for Out-of-Network Providers           
           Out-of-network providers can be covered without prior authorization for emergency services and hospital
           admissions for a medical emergency. This includes hospital admissions for emergency drug or alcohol detox
           or for childbirth.                                                       
           If you are admitted to an out-of-network hospital due to an emergency condition, those services are always
           covered. We will continue to cover those services until you are medically stable and can safely transfer to an
           in-network hospital. Emergency services furnished by a non-participating provider will be reimbursed in
           compliance with applicable laws.                                         
           If you choose to stay in the out-of-network hospital after you are medically stable and can safely transfer to
           an in-network hospital, you may be subject to additional charges which may not be covered by your plan,
           including charges above the allowed amount.                              
       CLINICAL REVIEW                                                              
                                                                                    
       Clinical review is a summary of medical and payment policies. These are used to make sure that you get
       appropriate and cost-effective care. Our policies include:                   
       • Accepted clinical practice guidelines                                      
       • Industry standards accepted by organizations like the American Medical Association (AMA)
       • Other professional societies                                               
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          17                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       • Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS)                            
       You can find our medical policies at premera.com.                            
       PERSONAL HEALTH SUPPORT PROGRAMS                                             
                                                                                    
       Premera personal health support programs are designed to help make sure your health care and treatment
       improve your health. You will receive individualized and integrated support based on your specific needs. These
       services could include working with you and your provider to ensure appropriate and cost-effective medical care,
       to consider effective alternatives to hospitalization, or to support both of you in managing chronic conditions.
       Your participation in a treatment plan through our personal health support programs is voluntary. To learn more
       about the programs, contact customer service at the number listed on your Premera ID card.
       CONTINUITY OF CARE                                                           
       How Continuity of Care Works: You may qualify for Continuity of Care (COC) under certain circumstances when
       a provider leaves your health plan’s network or your employer transitions to a new carrier. This will depend on
       your medical condition at the time the change occurs. COC is a process that provides you with short-term,
       temporary coverage at in-network levels for care received by a non-participating provider.
       COC applies in these situations:                                             
                                                                                    
       • The contract with your provider ends.                                      
       • The benefits covered for your provider change in a way that results in a loss of coverage.
       • The contract between your company and us ends and that results in a loss of coverage of your provider.
       How you qualify for Continuity of Care: If a primary care provider contract is terminated without cause,
       continuing care will be provided according to the details included in the member's notice of the contract
       termination. Additionally, you may qualify for continuing care from non-primary care providers if you are in an
       "active relationship" or treatment with your provider. This means that you have had three or more visits with the
       provider within the past 12 months and you meet one or more of these conditions with respect to a terminated
       provider or facility:                                                        
       • Undergoing a course of treatment for a serious and complex condition.      
       • Undergoing a course of institutional or inpatient care.                    
       • Are scheduled for a non-elective surgery, including receipt of postoperative care.
       • Are pregnant and undergoing a course of treatment for the pregnancy.       
                                                                                    
       • Are receiving treatment for a terminal illness.                            
       We will notify you at least 30 days prior to your provider’s termination date. When a termination for cause provides
       us less than 30 days notice, we will make a good faith effort to assure that a written notice is provided to you
       immediately.                                                                 
       You can request continuity of care by contacting customer service. See Contact Information.
       If you are approved for continuity of care, you will get continuing care from the terminating provider until the earlier
       of the following:                                                            
       • The 90th day after we notified you that your Primary Care Provider (PCP)'s contract ended.
                                                                                    
       • The day after you complete the active course of treatment entitling you to continuity of care.
       If you are pregnant and eligible for continuity of care you can continue with your provider throughout your
       pregnancy, plus 8 weeks postpartum care.                                     
       Continuity of care does not apply if your provider:                          
       • No longer holds an active license.                                         
       • Relocates out of the service area.                                         
       • Goes on leave of absence.                                                  
                                                                                    
       • Is unable to provide continuity of care because of other reasons.          
       • Does not meet standards of quality of care.                                
       When continuity of care ends, non-emergent care from the provider is no longer covered. If we deny your request
       for continuity of care, you may appeal the denial. See Complaints and Appeals.
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          18                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Covered  Services                                                            
                                                                                    
       This section talks about the benefits that are available with this plan and your costs. They are listed in alphabetical
       order.                                                                       
       Services of these benefits are available when they meet all of these requirements:
       • It must be given in connection with the prevention or diagnosis and treatment of a covered illness, disease, or
         injury.                                                                    
       • The service takes place in a medically necessary setting. This plan covers inpatient care only when you cannot
         get the services in a less intensive setting.                              
                                                                                    
       • Must not be excluded from coverage under this plan.                        
       • The expense for it must be incurred while you’re covered under this plan.  
       • It must be given by a provider who’s performing services within the scope of their license or certification.
       • It must meet the standards set in our medical and payment policies. The plan uses policies to administer the
         terms of the plan.                                                         
       • Some types of services may be limited or excluded under this plan.         
                                                                                    
       Related Benefit Information                                                  
       • To learn more about terms like medical necessity and provider, see Definitions.
       • See Exclusions and Limitations for a complete description of limitations and exclusions.
       • This plan complies with state and federal regulations about diabetes medical treatment coverage. See
         Preventive Care, Prescription Drugs, Home Medical Equipment (HME) Orthotics, Prosthetics and
         Supplies, and the Foot Care benefits.                                      
                                                                                    
       Medical services must meet the standards set in our medical and payment policies. The plan uses policies to
       administer the terms of the plan. Our policies are available to you and your provider at premera.com or by calling
       customer service.                                                            
       Medical policies are generally used to further define medical necessity or investigational status for specific
       procedures, drugs, biologic agents, devices, level of care or services.      
                                                                                    
       Payment policies define our provider billing and payment rules. Our policies are based on accepted clinical
       practice guidelines and industry standards accepted by organizations like the American Medical Association
       (AMA), other professional societies and the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS).
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          19                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    