                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Acupuncture                                                                  
                                                                                    
       The technique of inserting thin needles through the skin at specific points on body to help control pain and other
       symptoms. Services must be provided by a certified or licensed acupuncturist.
         Important things to know:                                                  
         •  Acupuncture limit is not applicable for treatment of substance use disorders.
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Cost Overview                                                                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         What is covered? What is the limit?                                        
                                                  What will I pay?                  
                                          In-network       Out-of-Network           
                                                                                    
          Office and clinic            $15 copay, deductible                        
                         12 visits / year                   Not covered             
             visits                        waived                                   
                                                                                    
          Other outpatient             Deductible, then 30%                         
                           No limit                         Not covered             
         professional care                coinsurance                               
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Benefit Overview                                                             
                                                                                    
                       Acupuncture that is used to:                                 
         What services are • Relieve pain                                           
            included?  • Provide anesthesia for surgery                             
                       • Treat a covered illness, injury, or condition              
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          20                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Allergy Testing and Treatment                                                
       Skin and blood tests used to diagnose what substances a person is allergic to, and treatment for allergies.
       Services must be provided by a certified or licensed allergy specialist.     
                                                                                    
       Cost Overview                                                                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         What is covered? What is the limit?                                        
                                                  What will I pay?                  
                                          In-network       Out-of-network           
                                                                                    
           Testing and                 Deductible, then 30%                         
                           No limit                         Not covered             
            treatment                     coinsurance                               
                                                                                    
       Benefit Overview                                                             
                                                                                    
                       • Testing                                                    
         What services are                                                          
                       • Allergy shots                                              
            included?                                                               
                       • Serums                                                     
          Related benefit • If you receive allergy testing in an office setting, you may also be billed for an
           information  office visit. See Professional Visits and Services.         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          21                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Ambulance                                                                    
       Medical transportation, usually for emergencies.                             
                                                                                    
        Important things to know:                                                   
         • Air or sea emergency transport is only covered under certain circumstances.
           See the Benefit Overview below for full details.                         
                                                                                    
       Cost Overview                                                                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         What is covered? What is the limit?      What will I pay?                  
                                          In-network       Out-of-network           
                                                                                    
                                       Deductible, then 30% In-network deductible, then
           Ambulance       No limit                                                 
                                          coinsurance      30% coinsurance          
                                                                                    
       Benefit Overview                                                             
                                                                                    
                       • Transport to the nearest facility that can treat your condition.
                       • Medical care you get during the trip                       
                       • Transport from one medical facility to another, as needed for your condition
                       • Transport to your home when medically necessary.           
                                                                                    
                       These services are only covered when:                        
                       • Any other type of transport would put your health or safety at risk.
         What services are                                                          
                       • The service is from a licensed ambulance.                  
            included?                                                               
                       • It is for the member who needs transport.                  
                       Air or sea emergency transportation is only covered when all the above
                       requirements for ambulance services are met and:             
                       • Transport takes you to the nearest available facility that can treat your
                        condition.                                                  
                       • Geographic restraints prevent use of a ground transport.   
                       • Ground emergency transportation would put your health or safety at risk.
                                                                                    
         What is excluded?                                                          
                       • Services from an unlicensed ambulance.                     
         (Premera pays 0%)                                                          
          Related benefit • Ambulance services that are not for an emergency must be medically
           information  necessary and need prior authorization. See Prior Authorization.
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Additional Information                                                       
       Ambulances that do not have an agreement with us or the local Blue Cross and/or Blue Shield
       Licensee will be paid based on billed charges.                               
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          22                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       At-Home  Care                                                                
       This section will go over the two main types of at-home care:                
          • Home health care (which is occasional and short-term)                   
          • Skilled hourly nursing (which is intensive and continual care)          
                                                                                    
       Home  health care                                                            
       Home health care is occasional visits by a medical professional employed by a home health agency that is state-
       licensed or Medicare-certified. This short-term care is designed to help a patient prevent or recover from an
       illness, injury, or hospital stay.                                           
       Home health care provided by licensed home health, hospice and home care agencies may be substituted as an
       alternative to hospitalization or inpatient care if hospitalization or inpatient care is medically necessary and home
       health care:                                                                 
          • can be provided at equal or lesser cost;                                
          • is the most appropriate and cost-effective setting; and                 
          • is substituted with the consent of the member and upon the recommendation of the member's doctor or
            licensed provider which will adequately meet the member’s needs.        
                                                                                    
       The decision to substitute less expensive or less intensive services shall be made based on the medical needs of
       the member. We may require a written treatment plan that has been approved by the member’s doctor or licensed
       provider. Substituted home health care benefits available for hospital care or other inpatient care services are
       covered as stated in the Cost Overview.                                      
         Important things to know:                                                  
          • Coverage requires that a provider states in writing that care is needed in your home.
                                                                                    
       Cost Overview                                                                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         What is covered? What is the limit?       What will I pay?                 
                                           In-network        Out-of-network         
                                                                                    
                                        Deductible, then 30%                        
           Home visits   130 visits / year                    Not covered           
                                           coinsurance                              
                                                                                    
       Benefit Overview                                                             
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                       • Home medical equipment, supplies, and devices billed as part of the home visit.
         What services are                                                          
                       • Prescription drugs given by the home health agency.        
            included?                                                               
                       • Physical, occupational, or speech therapy to help regain function.
                       When provided by a home health agency, the following are covered:
                       • A registered nurse.                                        
                       • A licensed practical nurse.                                
         Whose services are • A licensed physical or occupational therapist.        
            covered?                                                                
                       • A certified speech therapist.                              
                       • A certified respiratory therapist.                         
                       • A home health aide directly supervised by one of the above listed providers.
                       • A licensed social worker.                                  
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          23                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                       • Over-the-counter drugs, solutions, nutritional supplements 
         What is excluded? • Non-medical services, like housekeeping                
         (Premera pays 0%) • Services that bring you food or advice about food      
                       • The independent hiring of a nurse by a family or member to provide care without
                        oversight by a home health agency.                          
                                                                                    
          Related benefit • See Home Medical Equipment (HME) Orthotics, Prosthetics and Supplies for
           information  additional benefit information.                             
                                                                                    
       Skilled hourly nursing                                                       
       Skilled hourly nursing is continuous, daily care for homebound patients with oversight by a home health agency.
       This longer-term care is designed to help patients with a chronic illness, injury, or disability.
                                                                                    
        Important things to know:                                                   
         • This benefit is only covered when it’s an alternative to hospitalization.
         • Prior authorization is required.                                         
         • A written plan of care from your provider is required.                   
                                                                                    
        Examples of skilled hourly nursing services include:                        
         • Ventilator dependent or tracheostomy patients                            
         • Patients who are chronically ill and require extensive care to remain at home
       Cost Overview                                                                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         What is covered? What is the limit?       What will I pay?                 
                                           In-network         Out-of-network        
                                                                                    
                                        Deductible, then 30%                        
        Skilled hourly nursing No limit                       Not covered           
                                           coinsurance                              
                                                                                    
       Benefit Overview                                                             
                                                                                    
                                 Benefits are provided by a registered nurse or licensed practitioner
                                 when:                                              
           What services are included? • The patient is homebound,                  
                                 • Services are medically necessary, and            
                                 • Such care is prescribed by a physician.          
                                                                                    
                                 • Non-medical services, such as housekeeping       
                                 • Services that bring you food, such as Meals on Wheels, or advice
                                  about food                                        
              What is excluded?                                                     
              (Premera pays 0%)  • Private duty or 24-hour nursing care. Private duty nursing is the
                                  independent hiring of a nurse by a family or member to provide
                                  care without oversight by a home health agency. The care may be
                                  skilled, supportive or respite in nature.         
                                 • See Prior Authorization to learn about the process used to get
           Related benefit information                                              
                                  this benefit covered.                             
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          24                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Blood Products and Services                                                  
       Blood components and services, like blood transfusions, which are provided by a certified or licensed healthcare
       provider.                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Cost Overview                                                                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         What is covered? What is the limit?       What will I pay?                 
                                           In-network         Out-of-network        
                                                                                    
         Blood products and             Deductible, then 30%                        
                           No limit                            Not covered          
            services                       coinsurance                              
                                                                                    
       Benefit Overview                                                             
                                                                                    
         What services are • Blood products and services that either help with prevention or diagnosis and
            included?   treatment of an illness, disease, or injury.                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          25                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Chemotherapy  and Radiation Therapy                                          
       Treatment which uses anti-cancer drugs (chemotherapy) or high-energy beams (radiation) to shrink or kill cancer
       cells.                                                                       
                                                                                    
         Important things to know:                                                  
         •  Chemotherapy and radiation must be prescribed by a provider and approved by Premera to be
            covered. See Prior Authorization.                                       
         •  If you are prescribed oral chemotherapy, it is covered under Prescription Drugs.
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Cost Overview                                                                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         What is covered? What is the limit?       What will I pay?                 
                                           In-network         Out-of-network        
                                                                                    
                                        Deductible, then 30%                        
          Facility charges No limit                            Not covered          
                                           coinsurance                              
                                                                                    
           Professional                 Deductible, then 30%                        
                           No limit                            Not covered          
            services                       coinsurance                              
                                                                                    
       Benefit Overview                                                             
                                                                                    
                       • Outpatient chemotherapy and radiation therapy              
         What services are                                                          
                       • Supplies, solutions, and drugs used during a chemotherapy or radiation visit
            included?                                                               
                       • Tooth extractions to prepare your jaw for radiation therapy
                                                                                    
          Related benefit • See Prior Authorization for more information on getting prior approval for services.
           information                                                              
                       • See Prescription Drugs for information on oral chemotherapy.
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          26                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Chiropractic Adjustments                                                     
       This benefit covers spinal and other adjustments to treat a covered illness, injury, or condition. Adjustments are
       often performed by chiropractors but may also be provided by other licensed professionals such as osteopathic
       physicians and physical therapists.                                          
                                                                                    
       Cost Overview                                                                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         What is covered? What is the limit?       What will I pay?                 
                                           In-network         Out-of-network        
                                                                                    
           Adjustments   10 visits / year $15 copay, deductible waived Not covered  
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Benefit Overview                                                             
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         What services are                                                          
                       • Spinal manipulations and adjustments                       
            included?                                                               
                       • Your healthcare provider may give you physical therapy services in addition to
                        adjustments. These services are covered under Rehabilitation Therapy and
          Related benefit                                                           
                        Neurodevelopmental (Habilitation) Therapy.                  
           information                                                              
                       • You may receive x-rays during your adjustment visit. These services are covered
                        under Diagnostic X-ray, Lab and Imaging.                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          27                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Clinical Trials                                                              
       Qualified clinical trials are scientific studies that test and improve treatments of cancer and other life-threatening
       conditions.                                                                  
                                                                                    
        Important things to know:                                                   
        •  To be covered, the clinical trial must be suitable for your health condition, and you must be enrolled in
           the trial at the time of treatment. We encourage you or your provider to call customer service before you
           enroll in a clinical trial.                                              
        •  What you pay and what is covered is based on the type of service you get. See Related Benefit
           Information below for details.                                           
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Cost Overview                                                                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         What is covered? What is the limit?       What will I pay?                 
                                           In-network         Out-of-network        
                                                                                    
        Routine patient care                                                        
                           No limit   Covered as any other service Not covered      
          during the trial                                                          
                                                                                    
       Benefit Overview                                                             
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         What services are • Qualified clinical trial medical services and drugs that are already covered under
            included?   this plan.                                                  
                                                                                    
                       • The drug, device, or service being tested by the trial     
                       • Costs for treatment outside of patient care                
                                                                                    
                       • Travel, housing, and meal costs related to the trial       
         What is excluded?                                                          
        (Premera pays 0%) • Services provided to you in a clinical trial that are fully paid for by another source.
                       • Services that are not consistent with established standards of care for a certain
                        condition.                                                  
                       • Services that are not routine costs normally covered under this plan.
                       • You may have additional costs for other services such as x-rays, labs, prescription
                        drugs, and hospital facility charges. See those covered services for details.
                       • Facility charges are covered under Hospital.               
          Related benefit                                                           
                       • See Prescription Drugs.                                    
           information                                                              
                       • Office visits are covered under Professional Visits and Services.
                       • Lab and diagnostic tests that are primarily for patient care are covered under
                        Diagnostic X-Ray, Lab, and Imaging.                         
       Additional Information                                                       
       A qualified clinical trial means a phase I, II, III, or IV clinical trial conducted in relation to the prevention, diagnosis,
       or treatment of cancer or other life-threatening diseases or conditions, and it is either federally funded or
       approved, conducted under FDA investigational new drug application, or drug trial exempt from FDA
       investigational new drug application.                                        
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          28                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       The study must be approved by an institutional review board that complies with federal standards for protecting
       human research subjects and one or more of the following:                    
           • The US Department of Health and Human Services, National Institutes of Health, or its institutes or
             centers                                                                
           • The United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA)                   
           • The US Departments of Veterans Affairs or Defense                      
           • An institutional review board in this state that has a multiple project assurance contract approval by the
             Office of Protection for the Research Risks of the National Institutes of Health.
           • A qualified research entity that meets the criteria for National Institutes of Health Center Support Grant
             eligibility                                                            
           • A National Institutes of Health (NIH) cooperative group or center that is a formal network of facilities that
             collaborate on research projects and have an established NIH-approved peer review program operating
             within the group including, but not limited to, the NCI Clinical Cooperative Group and the NCI
             Community Clinical Oncology Program.                                   
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          29                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Dental Injury and Facility Anesthesia                                        
       This section will go over two types of dental care:                          
          • Dental care for medical injuries.                                       
          • Anesthesia for routine dental care when medically necessary.            
                                                                                    
       Dental Injuries                                                              
       This benefit covers exams and treatments of injuries to the gum, tooth, and jaw; and oral surgery when related to
       an accident/injury and is medically necessary.                               
                                                                                    
        Important things to know:                                                   
         • Treatment of dental injuries are covered within 12 months of the injury. If more time is needed, ask
           your provider to contact Premera customer service.                       
         • Treatments for an injury can result in multiple charges for things like facility, exams, and tests used to
           diagnose your condition. You may receive separate bills for each charge. See Related Benefit
           Information below for details                                            
         • This benefit covers sound and natural teeth that:                        
             • Do not have decay                                                    
             • Do not have a large number of restorations, such as crowns or bridge work
             • Do not have gum disease or any condition that would make them weak   
         • Sound natural tooth means a tooth that:                                  
             • Is organic and formed by the natural development of the body (not manufactured)
             • Hasn’t been extensively restored                                     
             • Hasn’t become extensively decayed or involved in periodontal disease 
             • Isn’t more susceptible to injury than a whole natural tooth          
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Cost Overview                                                                
                                                                                    
         What is covered? What is the limit?       What will I pay?                 
                                           In-network        Out-of-network         
                                                                                    
        Exams and treatment No limit Covered as any other service Covered as any other service
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Benefit Overview                                                             
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                       Dental Injury                                                
                                                                                    
                       • Exams                                                      
         What services are                                                          
            included?  • Consultations                                              
                       • Treatment of dental injuries to teeth, gum, and jaw        
                       • Oral surgery                                               
                       • Routine dental care, including the professional charges of the dentist or services
         What is excluded? received in the dental office                            
         (Premera pays 0%) • Injuries from biting or chewing, including injuries from a foreign object in food
                       • Oral surgery treating any fracture of the mandible (jaw)   
                       • You may have additional costs for other services such as x-rays, labs, and hospital
                        facility charges. See those covered services for details.   
          Related benefit                                                           
                       • Facility charges are covered under Hospital.               
           information                                                              
                       • See Prescription Drugs.                                    
                       • Lab and diagnostic tests are covered under Diagnostic X-Ray, Lab, and Imaging.
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          30                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                       • If surgery is needed due to injuries that involve dental or oral conditions, treatments
                        would be covered under Surgery.                             
                                                                                    
       Anesthesia for Routine Dental Care                                           
       Anesthesia for routine dental care is covered for any one of the following reasons when medically necessary:
       • The member is under age 19 and failed patient management in the dental office.
                                                                                    
       • The member has a disability, medical, or mental health condition making it unsafe to have care in a dental
         office.                                                                    
       • The severity and extent of the dental care prevents care in a dental office.
                                                                                    
       Cost Overview                                                                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                        What is the limit?         What will I pay?                 
         What is covered?                                                           
                                           In-network         Out-of-network        
                                        Deductible, then 30%                        
         Anesthesiologist  No limit                            Not covered          
                                           coinsurance                              
                                                                                    
         Outpatient surgery             Deductible, then 30%                        
                           No limit                           Not covered           
             center                        coinsurance                              
                                        Deductible, then 30%                        
        Inpatient facility care No limit                      Not covered           
                                           coinsurance                              
                                                                                    
                                        Deductible, then 30%                        
        Inpatient professional No limit                       Not covered           
                                           coinsurance                              
             care                                                                   
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Benefit Overview                                                             
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                 Dental Anesthesia                                  
          What services are included? • Hospital or other facility care             
                                 • General anesthesia provided by an anesthesia professional other
                                  than the dentist or the physician performing the dental care
                                                                                    
             What is excluded?   • Routine dental care, including the professional charges of the
             (Premera pays 0%)    dentist or services received in the dental office 
                                                                                    
                                 • Tooth extractions related to radiation treatment are covered under
                                  Chemotherapy and Radiation Therapy.               
           Related benefit information                                              
                                 • Services related to TMJ are covered under Temporomandibular
                                  Joint Disorders Care (TMJ).                       
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          31                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Diagnostic X-ray, Lab, and Imaging                                           
       Diagnostic x-ray, lab and imaging services are basic and major medical tests that help find or identify diseases.
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         Important things to know:                                                  
          • Some tests or imaging may require Premera’s approval to be covered. See Prior Authorization.
          • A typical diagnostic test can result in multiple charges for things like an office visit, test, and
            anesthesia. You may receive separate bills for each charge.             
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Cost Overview                                                                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         What is covered? What is the limit?       What will I pay?                 
                                           In-network         Out-of-network        
                                                                                    
          Preventive care                                                           
                           No limit         No charge          Not covered          
          screening/tests                                                           
                                                                                    
                                        Deductible, then 30%                        
         Basic diagnostic x- No limit                          Not covered          
                                           coinsurance                              
          ray and imaging                                                           
         Basic diagnostic lab                                                       
                                        Deductible, then 30%                        
          and professional No limit                            Not covered          
                                           coinsurance                              
            services                                                                
                                        Deductible, then 30%                        
                           No limit                            Not covered          
             Major                         coinsurance                              
          Diagnostic and                                                            
        supplemental breast No limit        No charge          Not covered          
             exams                                                                  
                                                                                    
       Benefit Overview                                                             
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                 • Bone density screening for osteoporosis          
                                 • Cardiac tests, including ECG, EKGs, and nuclear cardiology
                                 • Colonoscopy                                      
                                 • Diagnostic images and scans, such as:            
                                   • X-ray                                          
                                   • Ultrasound                                     
           What services are included?                                              
                                   • Mammogram (including 3-D) for a medical condition
                                   • MRI (Magnetic Resonance Imaging)               
                                   • MRA (Magnetic Resonance Angiography)           
                                   • CT scan (Computed Tomography)                  
                                   • PET scan (Positron Emission Tomography)        
                                 • Laboratory services                              
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          32                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                 • Lung function tests                              
                                 • Neurological and neuromuscular tests             
                                                                                    
                                 • Pathology tests                                  
                                 • Diagnosis and treatment of underlying medical conditions that may
                                   cause infertility                                
                                 • Treatment of infertility, including but not limited to surgery, fertility
                                   drugs, and other medications associated with fertility treatment.
              What is excluded?                                                     
              (Premera pays 0%)  • Non-diagnostic testing or screening required for employment,
                                   schooling, or public health reasons that is not for the purpose of
                                   treatment.                                       
                                 • You may have additional costs for other services such as hospital
                                   facility charges. See those covered services for details.
                                 • Facility charges are covered under Hospital.     
                                 • See Emergency Services for diagnostic tests in an emergency
                                   room.                                            
                                 • See Maternity Care for diagnostic tests on a fetus.
           Related benefit information • See Preventive Care for routine screening of health status and
                                   other services covered as preventive.            
                                 • Genetic testing may be covered in some cases. Call customer
                                   service before seeking testing since it may require Prior
                                   Authorization. When prescribed by an in-network provider, prior
                                   authorization is not required for biomarker testing for members with
                                   stage 3 or 4 cancer, or for members with recurrent, relapsed,
                                   refractory, or metastatic cancer.                
       Additional Information                                                       
                                                                                    
       Diagnostic breast examination for the purpose of this Diagnostic X-Ray, Lab and Imaging benefit means a
       medically necessary and appropriate examination of the breast, including an examination using diagnostic
       mammography, breast magnetic resonance imaging, or breast ultrasound, that is used to evaluate an abnormality.
           • seen or suspected from a screening examination for breast cancer, or   
           • detected by another means of examination.                              
       Supplemental breast examination for the purpose of this Diagnostic X-Ray, Lab and Imaging benefit means a
       medically necessary and appropriate examination of the breast, including an examination using breast magnetic
       resonance imaging or breast ultrasound, that is:                             
           • used to screen for breast cancer when there is no abnormality seen or suspected; and
           • based on personal or family medical history, or additional factors that may increase the member's risk of
             breast cancer.                                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          33                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Dialysis                                                                     
       Dialysis is a treatment that performs the functions of healthy kidneys. It is needed when your own kidneys can’t
       take care of your body’s needs.                                              
                                                                                    
        Important things to know:                                                   
                                                                                    
         • In the case of dialysis, we recommend calling customer service to find in-network providers.
         • If you have end-stage renal disease (ESRD), you may be eligible for Medicare. We recommend that
           you enroll in Medicare as soon as possible if you are eligible. This will reduce your costs substantially.
                                                                                    
         • When covered dialysis services are provided by an out-of-network provider in a county in Washington
           state where no in-network providers are available, the in-network cost shares will apply.
         • Medicare has a waiting period, generally the first 90 days after dialysis starts. Medicare doesn’t start
           covering any of your costs until after that waiting period.              
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Cost Overview                                                                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         What is covered? What is the limit?       What will I pay?                 
                                           In-network         Out-of-network        
                                                                                    
                                        Deductible, then 30%                        
            Dialysis       No limit                            Not covered          
                                           coinsurance                              
                                                                                    
       Benefit Overview                                                             
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         What services are                                                          
                       • Dialysis treatments in an outpatient facility or hospital setting or in your home.
            included?                                                               
                       • See Prescription Drugs for medications for use after you leave the dialysis facility.
          Related benefit • See How Providers Affect Your Costs for information about when out-of-network
           information  providers are covered.                                      
                       • See Allowed Amount in Important Plan Information.          
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          34                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Emergency  Services                                                          
                                                                                    
       An emergency medical condition is an illness, injury, symptom, or condition so serious that you need care right
       away to avoid harm. This plan provides worldwide coverage for emergency services.
                                                                                    
        Important things to know about emergency services:                          
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         •  A typical emergency room visit results in multiple charges for things like the facility, professional
            services, and tests used to diagnose your condition. You may receive separate bills for each charge.
         •  Once you're stabilized, you will incur out-of-network charges if you choose to stay in an out-of-network
            facility.                                                               
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Cost Overview                                                                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         What is covered? What is the limit?       What will I pay?                 
                                           In-network         Out-of-network        
                                                                                    
                                        Deductible, then 30% In-network deductible, then
          Facility charges No limit                                                 
                                           coinsurance       30% coinsurance        
                                                                                    
           Professional                 Deductible, then 30% In-network deductible, then
                           No limit                                                 
            services                       coinsurance       30% coinsurance        
       Benefit Overview                                                             
                       • Emergency room and provider services                       
                       • Equipment, supplies, and drugs used in the emergency room  
                       • Diagnostic tests performed with other emergency services   
         What services are (some may have additional costs, like x-rays or labs)    
            included?                                                               
                       • Medically necessary detoxification                         
                       • Services and exams to stabilize an emergency medical condition, including mental
                        health or substance use disorder                            
                       • Emergency services for complications from non-covered services
         What is excluded?                                                          
                       • If you use ambulance services that are not for an emergency
         (Premera pays 0%)                                                          
                       • See Ambulance for additional benefit information.          
          Related benefit                                                           
           information • See Prescription Drugs for benefits related to medications for use after you leave
                        the emergency room.                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          35                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Foot Care                                                                    
       This section will cover medically necessary foot care services that need care from a provider. Routine foot care is
       covered for some medical conditions, as indicated below.                     
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         Examples of medical conditions include:                                    
           •  Diabetes                                                              
           •  Lymphedema                                                            
           •  Athlete’s foot                                                        
           •  Bunions                                                               
           •  Fungus of the foot or toenails                                        
           •  Ingrown toenails                                                      
           •  Warts                                                                 
           •  Any other medical diagnosis or service in which foot care is deemed medically necessary.
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Cost Overview                                                                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         What is covered? What is the limit?       What will I pay?                 
                                                                                    
                                           In-network         Out-of-network        
                                                                                    
                                      See Professional Visits and                   
         In an office or clinic No limit                       Not covered          
                                            Services                                
                                                                                    
            All other                   Deductible, then 30%                        
                           No limit                            Not covered          
        professional settings              coinsurance                              
                                                                                    
       Benefit Overview                                                             
                                                                                    
                       • Medically necessary foot care performed by a licensed provider
         What services are                                                          
            included?  • A medical provider can cut or remove corns, calluses, and nails related to a certain
                        medical condition.                                          
                       • Routine foot care, such as trimming of nails and removing calluses, that can be
         What is excluded? done by the member or a caregiver and that do not require skills from a qualified
         (Premera pays 0%) provider                                                 
                       • Non-medically necessary foot care                          
                                                                                    
                       • When prescribed by a provider, corrective or therapeutic shoes and orthotics are
          Related Benefit                                                           
                        covered under Home Medical Equipment (HME) Orthotics, Prosthetics and
           Information                                                              
                        Supplies.                                                   
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          36                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Gender  Affirming Care                                                       
                                                                                    
       Medically necessary services and care related to gender-affirming medical care or surgery.
                                                                                    
        Important things to know:                                                   
         •  Benefits are provided for all gender affirming surgical services which meet the criteria of the Premera
            medical policy, including facility and anesthesia charges related to the surgery. Our medical policies are
            available from customer service, or at premera.com.                     
         •  Gender affirming surgery results in multiple charges for things like the facility and professional services.
            You may receive separate bills for each charge.                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Cost Overview                                                                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         What is covered? What is the limit?       What will I pay?                 
                                                                                    
                                           In-network         Out-of-network        
                                                                                    
          Office and clinic           See Professional Visits and                   
                           No limit                            Not covered          
             visits                         Services                                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            Inpatient                                                               
                                        Deductible, then 30%                        
           professional    No limit                            Not covered          
                                           coinsurance                              
            services                                                                
                                        Deductible, then 30%                        
        Inpatient facility care No limit                       Not covered          
                                           coinsurance                              
       Benefit Overview                                                             
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                 • Gender-affirming surgeries                       
           What services are included?                                              
                                 • For a full list of services, see our medical policy by calling customer
                                  service or visit premera.com.                     
                                                                                    
                                 • Procedures that are not medically necessary for gender affirming
              What is excluded?   surgery                                           
              (Premera pays 0%)                                                     
                                 • Surgery to change the appearance of prior gender change
                                  procedures, except when medically necessary       
                                 • For mental health services, see Mental Health Care.
           Related benefit information                                              
                                 • Hormone treatments are covered under the Prescription Drugs
                                   benefit.                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          37                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Home  Medical Equipment (HME), Orthotics, Prosthetics and Supplies           
       Medical products used to regain functionality or treat a medical condition.  
                                                                                    
         Important things to know:                                                  
                                                                                    
         Check with Premera before buying or renting items                          
         •  Equipment and supplies are covered only when a provider states in writing that they are needed.
            • Not all equipment or supplies are covered.                            
            • Prior authorization may be required.                                  
         •  You must buy HME from approved providers.                               
            For a list of providers, visit premera.com or call customer service.    
         •  You can rent HME, up to the purchase price. After that, you pay 100% of costs out of pocket.
         •  Sales tax, shipping and handling costs apply to any limit if billed and paid separately.
                                                                                    
       Cost Overview                                                                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         What is covered? What is the limit?       What will I pay?                 
                                           In-network        Out-of-network         
                                                                                    
           Home medical                                                             
        equipment, orthotics,           Deductible, then 30%                        
                           No limit                           Not covered           
          prosthetics, and                 coinsurance                              
            supplies                                                                
         Foot orthotics and                                                         
                                        Deductible, then 30%                        
         therapeutic shoes No limit                           Not covered           
                                           coinsurance                              
       Benefit Overview                                                             
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                       External Prosthetics and Orthotic Devices:                   
                       To replace, correct, or straighten a body limb.              
                                                                                    
                       Home Medical Equipment and supplies (fitting costs and sales tax) such as:
                       • Wheelchairs                                                
                       • Hospital beds                                              
                       • Traction equipment                                         
                       • Crutches                                                   
                       • Ventilators                                                
         What services are                                                          
            included?  • Insulin pump / blood glucose monitor and supplies          
                       Orthopedic Shoes and Shoe Inserts:                           
                       For the treatment of complications from diabetes or other medical disorders that
                       cause foot problems.                                         
                                                                                    
                       Medical Vision Hardware:                                     
                       For members age 19 and older to correct vision due to medical eye conditions such
                       as:                                                          
                       • Corneal ulcer, abrasion, or recurrent erosion              
                       • Bullous keratopathy                                        
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          38                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                       • Tear film insufficiency                                    
                       • Aphakia                                                    
                                                                                    
                       • Sjogren’s disease                                          
                       • Congenital cataract                                        
                       • Keratoconus                                                
                       • Progressive high (degenerative) myopia                     
                       • Irregular astigmatism                                      
                       • Aniridia                                                   
                                                                                    
                       • Aniseikonia                                                
                       • Anisometropia                                              
                       • Pathological Myopia                                        
                       • Post traumatic disorders                                   
                                                                                    
                       • Supplies or equipment not primarily intended for medical use
                       • Special or extra-cost convenience features                 
                       • Items such as exercise equipment and weights               
                       • Physical changes to your house or personal vehicle (like elevators)
                       • Over-bed tables, vision aids, and telephone alert systems  
                       • Non-wearable defibrillators, trusses, and ultrasonic nebulizers
         What is excluded?                                                          
                       • Over-the-counter orthotic braces and/or cranial banding    
         (Premera pays 0%)                                                          
                       • Blood pressure cuffs/monitors (even if prescribed by a physician)
                       • Bed-wetting (enuresis) alarm                               
                       • Compression stockings which do not require a prescription  
                       • Orthopedic shoes used for sport, recreation, or similar activity
                       • Penile prostheses                                          
                       • Hair prostheses, such as wigs or hair weaves, transplants and implants
                                                                                    
                       • See Pediatric Vision Care for routine eye exams, eyeglasses and contact lenses,
                        and medical vision hardware for members under age 19.       
                       • See Rehabilitation Therapy for additional benefit information.
                       • See Prescription Drugs for some diabetic testing supplies which can be
          Related benefit purchased in a pharmacy.                                  
           information                                                              
                       • See Surgery for prosthetics, intraocular lenses, equipment, or devices which
                        require surgery.                                            
                       • Breast pumps are covered under Preventive Care.            
                       • Not all equipment or supplies are covered. Some items need prior authorization
                        from us. See Prior Authorization for details.               
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          39                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Hospice Care                                                                 
       A facility or program that provides palliative and supportive care, usually for terminally ill members.
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         Important things to know:                                                  
         •  Care is covered when a provider states in writing that care is needed.  
         •  Inpatient care is only covered when it’s an alternative to hospitalization or a skilled nursing facility.
         •  After lifetime maximum for respite care is met, you pay 100% of costs out of pocket.
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Cost Overview                                                                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         What is covered? What is the limit?       What will I pay?                 
                                                                                    
                                           In-network         Out-of-network        
                                        Deductible, then 30%                        
           Home visits     No limit                            Not covered          
                                           coinsurance                              
                                                                                    
         Outpatient respite             Deductible, then 30%                        
                         14 days / lifetime                    Not covered          
              care                         coinsurance                              
                                                                                    
                                        Deductible, then 30%                        
        Inpatient respite care 14 days / lifetime              Not covered          
                                           coinsurance                              
       Benefit Overview                                                             
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                       • Nursing care provided by or under the supervision of a registered nurse.
                       • Medical social services provided by a medical social worker who is working under
                        the direction of a physician; this may include counseling for the purpose of helping
                        you and your caregivers to adjust to the approaching death. 
                       • Services provided by a qualified provider associated with the hospice program.
                       • Short term inpatient care provided in a hospice inpatient unit or other designated
                        hospice bed in a hospital or skilled nursing facility; this care may be for the purpose
                        of occasional respite for your caregivers, or for pain control and symptom
                        management.                                                 
                       • Home medical equipment, medical supplies and devices, including medications
         What services are used primarily for the relief of pain and control of symptoms related to the terminal
            included?   illness.                                                    
                       • Home health aide services for personal care, maintenance of a safe and healthy
                        environment and general support to the goals of the plan of care.
                       • Rehabilitation therapies provided for purposes of symptom control or to enable you
                        to maintain activities of daily living and basic functional skills.
                       • Continuous home care during a period of crisis in which you require skilled
                        intervention to achieve palliation or management of acute medical symptoms.
                       • Palliative care for members facing serious, life-threatening conditions, including
                        expanded access to home based care and care coordination. Participation in
                        palliative care is usually approved for 12 months at a time and may be extended
                        based on the member’s specific condition.                   
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          40                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                       When provided by a hospice that is Medicare-certified or is licensed or certified by the
                       state it operates in, the following are covered:             
                       • A registered nurse.                                        
                       • A licensed practical nurse.                                
         Whose services are                                                         
                       • A licensed physical or occupational therapist.             
            covered?                                                                
                       • A certified respiratory therapist.                         
                       • A certified speech therapist.                              
                       • A home health aide directly supervised by one of the above listed providers.
                       • A licensed social worker.                                  
                       • Over-the-counter drugs, solutions, and nutritional supplements
                                                                                    
                       • Services provided to someone other than the ill or injured member
                       • Services of family members or volunteers                   
         What is excluded?                                                          
                       • Services, supplies or providers not in the written plan of care or not named as
         (Premera pays 0%)                                                          
                        covered in this benefit                                     
                       • Non-medical services, such as spiritual, bereavement, legal or financial counseling
                       • Normal living expenses, such as food, clothing, and household supplies;
                        housekeeping services                                       
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          41                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Hospital                                                                     
       A hospital is a licensed facility where providers supervise and administer acute care.
                                                                                    
         Important things to know:                                                  
         •  A typical hospital visit results in multiple charges for things like the facility, professional services, and
            tests used to diagnose your condition. You may receive separate bills for each charge.
         •  Premera must approve all planned inpatient stays before you enter the hospital. See Prior
            Authorization for details. Typically, a stay is considered inpatient when you’re in the hospital for 24
            hours or more.                                                          
         •  Emergency visits don’t require approval beforehand.                     
                                                                                    
       Cost Overview                                                                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         What is covered? What is the limit?       What will I pay?                 
                                           In-network        Out-of-network         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            Inpatient      No limit     Deductible, then 30%  Not covered           
                                           coinsurance                              
         professional care                                                          
                                                                                    
         Inpatient facility             Deductible, then 30%                        
                           No limit                           Not covered           
            charges                        coinsurance                              
                                                                                    
           Outpatient                   Deductible, then 30%                        
                           No limit                           Not covered           
         professional care                 coinsurance                              
         Outpatient facility            Deductible, then 30%                        
                           No limit                           Not covered           
            charges                        coinsurance                              
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Benefit Overview                                                             
                                                                                    
                                 • Inpatient room and board                         
                                 • Provider services                                
                                 • Intensive care or special care units             
                                 • Operating rooms, procedure, and recovery rooms   
           What services are included?                                              
                                 • Surgical supplies and anesthesia                 
                                 • Drugs, blood, medical equipment, and oxygen for use in the
                                  hospital                                          
                                 • X-ray, lab, and testing billed by the hospital   
                                 • Medically necessary detoxification               
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          42                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                 • Any days of inpatient care beyond what is medically necessary to
                                  treat the condition                               
                                 • Hospital stays that are only for testing, physical exams, checkups,
              What is excluded                                                      
                                  medical evaluations, or observations, unless:     
              (Premera pays 0%)                                                     
                                    •  The tests can’t be done without the use of a hospital.
                                    •  You have a medical condition that makes hospital care
                                       medically necessary.                         
                                 • You may need to pay charges over the allowed amount if you get
                                  care from an out-of-network provider. See How Providers Affect
           Related benefit information Your Costs for details.                      
                                 • Non-emergency inpatient hospitalizations require prior
                                  authorization. See Prior Authorization for details.
       Additional Information                                                       
                                                                                    
       The following facilities are not considered hospitals if it operates mainly for any of the
       purposes below:                                                              
       •  Rest, nursing, or convalescent homes                                      
       •  Residential treatment centers                                             
       •  Health resorts                                                            
       •  Facilities that provide hospice care for terminally ill patients          
       •  Homes for the care of the elderly                                         
       •  Facilities to treat and rehabilitate patients with alcohol or drug addictions (substance use
          disorder)                                                                 
       •  Facilities that treat patients with tuberculosis                          
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          43                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Infusion Therapy                                                             
       Infusion therapy is when fluids or medications are administered into the vein through a needle or catheter as part
       of a course of treatment.                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         Examples of infusion include:                                              
           •  Drug therapy                                                          
           •  Pain management                                                       
           •  Total or partial parenteral nutrition (TPN or PPN)                    
                                                                                    
       Cost Overview                                                                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         What is covered? What is the limit?       What will I pay?                 
                                                                                    
                                           In-network         Out-of-network        
          Infusion therapy              Deductible, then 30%                        
                           No limit                            Not covered          
            treatments                     coinsurance                              
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Benefit Overview                                                             
                                                                                    
                       • Outpatient facility and professional services              
         What services are                                                          
                       • Professional services provided in an office or home        
            included?                                                               
                       • Prescription drugs, supplies and solutions used during infusion therapy
         What is excluded? • Over-the-counter drugs and solutions                   
         (Premera pays 0%)                                                          
                       • Over-the-counter nutritional supplements                   
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          44                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Mastectomy  and Breast Reconstruction                                        
       Mastectomy and breast reconstruction benefits are provided when necessary due to disease, illness, or injury.
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         Important things to know:                                                  
         •  A typical reconstruction may result in multiple charges for things like the facility, professional services,
            and surgery services. You may receive separate bills for each charge.   
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Cost Overview                                                                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         What is covered? What is the limit?       What will I pay?                 
                                           In-network         Out-of-network        
                                                                                    
          Mastectomy and                                                            
                                        Deductible, then 30%                        
             breast        No limit                            Not covered          
                                           coinsurance                              
          reconstruction                                                            
       Benefit Overview                                                             
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                       Procedures to treat the following:                           
                       • Breast disease or cancer, including severe fibrocystic breast disease that is
                        unresponsive to medical therapy                             
                       • Breast injury or trauma                                    
                       • Reduce risk of developing breast cancer (prophylactic mastectomy)
                                                                                    
                       Breast reconstruction                                        
         What services are                                                          
            included?  • Reconstruction of the breast on which a mastectomy was performed, and the
                        unaffected breast to restore symmetry                       
                       • Breast reduction, when medically necessary                 
                       • Physical complications of all stages of mastectomy, including lymphedema
                        treatment and supplies                                      
                       • Inpatient care                                             
                       • Nipple tattoos are covered only if performed by a licensed healthcare provider.
         What is excluded?                                                          
                       • All services performed by tattoo artists are not covered.  
         (Premera pays 0%)                                                          
                       • Planned hospital admissions require prior authorization. See Prior Authorization
          Related benefit                                                           
                        for details.                                                
           information                                                              
                       • See Home Medical Equipment (HME) Orthotics, Prosthetics and Supplies.
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          45                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Maternity Care                                                               
       Care during pregnancy and childbirth, and immediately after the baby is born. Routine pregnancy exams and
       tests are covered under Preventive Care.                                     
                                                                                    
       Cost Overview                                                                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
        Important things to know:                                                   
         • A typical birth results in multiple charges for things like the facility, professional services, and diagnostic
           tests for both you and your baby. You may receive separate bills for each charge.
           You must enroll your newborn or newly adopted child within 60 days of the date of birth or date of
           adoption. This is not automatic.                                         
         • Hospital stays for maternity care are:                                   
                o No less than 48 hours for a vaginal delivery; or                  
                o No less than 96 hours following a cesarean section.               
                o The attending provider will determine an appropriate discharge time in consultation with the
                  member.                                                           
         • Breast pumps, breastfeeding support, and screening for postpartum depression are covered. Please
           call Premera customer service for a list of approved providers.          
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         What is covered? What is the limit?        What will I pay?                
                                           In-network         Out-of-network        
                                                                                    
            Outpatient                                                              
                           No limit         No charge          Not covered          
         professional care                                                          
                                                                                    
            Inpatient                   Deductible, then 30%                        
                           No limit                            Not covered          
                                           coinsurance                              
         professional care                                                          
                                                                                    
         Inpatient hospital,                                                        
                                        Deductible, then 30%                        
                           No limit                            Not covered          
        birthing centers, and              coinsurance                              
         short-stay hospitals                                                       
            Abortion       No limit         No charge          Not covered          
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          46                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Benefit Overview                                                             
                                                                                    
                       • Routine prenatal visits                                    
                       • Diagnostic and screening procedures, and genetic counseling
         What services are • Delivery of your baby, including home birth            
            included?                                                               
                       • Additional post-delivery care, when the attending provider decides it’s necessary,
                        and it’s based on accepted medical practice                 
                       • Abortion                                                   
                       • Physician (MD or DO), or a physician’s assistant           
                                                                                    
         Whose services are • Certified nurse midwife (CNM)                         
            covered?                                                                
                       • A licensed midwife                                         
                       • Advanced registered nurse practitioner (ARNP)              
                       • Donor breast milk                                          
         What services are • Assisted reproduction technologies such as:            
            excluded?     •  Artificial insemination or in-vitro fertilization      
         (Premera pays 0%)                                                          
                          •  Services to make you more fertile or for multiple births
                          •  Reversing sterilization surgery                        
                       • Certain laboratory services and ultrasounds are billed separately. See Diagnostic
                        X-ray, Lab and Imaging.                                     
                       • Hospital care may be billed separately. See Hospital.      
          Related benefit                                                           
           information • Depression screening for pregnant and postpartum members are covered as
                        preventive care. See Preventive Care.                       
                       • Non-emergency inpatient hospitalizations require prior authorization. See Prior
                        Authorization for details.                                  
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          47                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Medical Foods                                                                
       Nutrients given orally or via feeding tube to provide complete nutrition when a person can’t eat, swallow, or
       otherwise absorb foods, due to a specific medical condition, for example phenylketonuria (PKU). Medical foods
       must be prescribed and supervised by doctors or other health care providers. 
                                                                                    
       Cost Overview                                                                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         What is covered? What is the limit?       What will I pay?                 
                                           In-network         Out-of-network        
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                        Deductible, then 30%                        
           Medical foods   No limit                            Not covered          
                                           coinsurance                              
                                                                                    
       Benefit Overview                                                             
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                       Dietary replacement to treat:                                
                       • inborn errors of metabolism.                               
                       • a severe allergy to most foods based on white blood cells in the stomach and
         What services are intestine that cause inflammation (eosinophilic gastrointestinal associated disorder).
            included?                                                               
                       • other severe conditions when your body can’t take in nutrients from food in the
                        small intestine.                                            
                       • disorders where you can’t swallow due to a blockage or muscular problem and
                        need to be fed through a tube.                              
                       • Food and nutritional supplements (other than those prescribed to treat the
         What is excluded? conditions listed above)                                 
         (Premera pays 0%) • Specialized infant formulas                            
                       • Lactose-free or gluten-free foods                          
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          48                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Medical Transportation                                                       
       Planned travel and lodging for a scheduled and pre-approved service.         
                                                                                    
         Important things to know:                                                  
         •  Prior approval is required for all travel reimbursement. See Prior Authorization.
         •  One companion needed for the member’s health and safety is covered.     
         •  For medically necessary care, a second companion is covered for a child under age 19.
         •  The member receiving medical transportation must live more than 50 miles away from the facility
            unless treatment protocols require them to be closer.                   
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Cost Overview                                                                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         What is covered? What is the limit?        What will I pay?                
                                           In-network       Out-of-network          
                                                                                    
                          $5,000 limit per Deductible, then 0% In-network deductible, then 0%
          For Transplants                                                           
                           transplant     coinsurance        coinsurance            
       Benefit Overview                                                             
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                       • Ferry transportation from the member’s home                
                       • Mileage expenses for the member’s personal vehicle         
                                                                                    
                       • Lodging expenses at commercial establishments, including hotels and motels,
                        between the home and medical facility where the service will be provided
                       • Ground transportation, car rental, taxi fares, and parking fees for the member and a
         What services are companion (when covered) between the hotel and medical facility where services
            included?   will be provided                                            
                       Air Transportation                                           
                       • Air travel expenses between the member’s home and medical facility where
                        services will be provided                                   
                       • Unrestricted coach class                                   
                       • Flexible and fully refundable round-trip airfare from a licensed commercial carrier
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          49                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                       • Charges and fees for booking changes                       
                       • Cancellation fees                                          
                       • First class airline fees                                   
                       • International travel                                       
                       • Lodging at any establishment that is not commercial        
                                                                                    
                       • Meals                                                      
                       • Personal care items                                        
                       • Pet care, except for service animals                       
         What is excluded?                                                          
         (Premera pays 0%) • Phone service and long-distance calls                  
                       • Reimbursement for mileage rewards or frequent flier coupons
                       • Reimbursement for travel before contacting Premera and receiving prior
                        authorization                                               
                       • Travel for medical procedures not listed above             
                       • Travel in a mobile home, RV, or travel trailer             
                       • Travel to providers outside the network or that have not been designated by
                        Premera to perform the services                             
                       • Travel insurance                                           
                                                                                    
          Related benefit • See Transplants for covered transplants.                
           information                                                              
                       • See Ambulance for emergent and planned non-emergent transportation services.
                                                                                    
       Additional Information                                                       
       Travel and lodging costs are subject to the IRS limits in place on the date you had the expense. The
       mileage limits and requirements can change if IRS regulations change. Visit irs.gov for details. This
       summary is not and shouldn’t be assumed to be tax advice.                    
                                                                                    
       Reimbursement of Travel Claims                                               
       A separate Claim Reimbursement Form is needed for each patient and each commercial carrier or
       transportation service used. You can find this form on premera.com or call customer service to get a
       copy.                                                                        
       To be reimbursed, attach the following documents to the Claim Reimbursement Form:
               • Receipts for all covered travel expenses.                          
               • A copy of the detailed itinerary issued by the transportation service, travel agency, or online travel
                 website. The itinerary must include:                               
                    o Passenger names                                               
                    o Dates of travel                                               
                    o Total cost of travel                                          
                    o Origination and final destination points                      
       Note: Credit card statements or other payment receipts are not acceptable forms of documentation.
                                                                                    
       Transplants                                                                  
       You must pay for all travel expenses upfront and submit a Claim Reimbursement Form.
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          50                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Mental Health Care                                                           
       Evaluation and/or treatment meant to manage or lessen effects of a mental or behavioral health condition.
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
        Important things to know:                                                   
         •  You can get mental health care virtually or in-person.                  
         •  Prescribed medications are covered under Prescription Drugs.            
         •  Inpatient care is only covered as long as it’s medically necessary.     
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Cost Overview                                                                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         What is covered? What is the limit?       What will I pay?                 
                                           In-network         Out-of-network        
                                                                                    
          Office and clinic             $45 copay, deductible                       
                           No limit                           Not covered           
             visits                         waived                                  
            Outpatient                                                              
                                        Deductible, then 30%                        
           professional    No limit                           Not covered           
                                           coinsurance                              
            services                                                                
           Inpatient and                                                            
                                        Deductible, then 30%                        
         residential facility No limit                        Not covered           
                                           coinsurance                              
              care                                                                  
            Inpatient                   Deductible, then 30%                        
                           No limit                           Not covered           
         professional care                 coinsurance                              
                                                                                    
         Outpatient facility            Deductible, then 30%                        
                           No limit                           Not covered           
              care                         coinsurance                              
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          51                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Benefit Overview                                                             
                                                                                    
                       • Inpatient care                                             
                       • Outpatient care (including virtual care)                   
                       • Residential facility care                                  
                       • Individual or group therapy                                
                                                                                    
                       • Family therapy, including couples therapy                  
         What services are                                                          
            covered?   • Laboratory and testing services                            
                       • Take home drugs you get in a facility                      
                       • Physical, speech or occupational therapy provided for treatment of psychiatric
                        conditions, such as autism spectrum disorders               
                       • Services provided in your home, when medically appropriate 
                       • Applied behavioral analysis (ABA) therapy (see Additional Information).
                       • A state licensed or approved facility, program, or agency that provides mental health
                        services within the scope of their state licensure.         
                       • A state licensed or certified clinician that provides mental health services within the
                        scope of their state licensure or certification.            
                       • Any other provider listed under “provider” in the Definitions section who is licensed
                        or certified in the state where care is provided, and who is providing care within the
        Whose services are                                                          
                        scope of their license.                                     
            covered?                                                                
                       • Behavioral health facilities that are accredited by the Joint Commission, the
                        Commission on Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities (CARF), or the Council on
                        Accreditation (COA), only when the state does not require licensure for the specific
                        level of care.                                              
                       • See Additional Information for who can provide ABA services.
                       • Evaluations that are not for the purpose of identifying or planning treatment of
                        covered mental health disorders, including evaluations for custody, competency,
                        forensic, vocational, and educational or academic placement.
                       • Recreational, camp and activity-based programs. These programs are not medically
                        necessary and include:                                      
                          •  Gym, swim and other sports programs, camps and training
                          •  Creative art, play and sensory movement and dance therapy
         What is excluded?                                                          
                          •  Recreational programs and camps                        
         (Premera pays 0%)                                                          
                          •  Hiking, tall ship and other adventure programs and camps
                          •  Boot camp programs and outward bound programs          
                          •  Equine programs and other animal-assisted programs and camps
                          •  Exercise and maintenance-level programs                
                       • Diagnosis and treatment of sexual dysfunction, regardless of origin or cause,
                        surgical, medical or psychological treatment, including drugs, medications or penile
                        or other implants.                                          
                       • See Psychological and Neuropsychological Testing for additional benefit
                        information.                                                
                       • See Substance Use Disorder.                                
          Related benefit                                                           
                       • See Prescription Drugs.                                    
           information                                                              
                       • See Exclusions and Limitations for other services that are not covered, such as
                        recreational, camp, and activity programs and sexual dysfunctions.
                       • This plan will comply with federal mental health parity requirements.
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          52                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Additional Information                                                       
                                                                                    
       What services are covered as part of “applied behavioral analysis (ABA)”?    
       • Therapy for members with autistic disorder, autism spectrum disorder, Asperger’s disorder, childhood
         disintegrative disorder, pervasive developmental disorder, or Rett’s disorder.
       • Treatment or direct therapy for identified members and/or family members.  
       • Initial evaluation and assessment, treatment or intervention, treatment review and planning, supervision of
         therapy assistants, and communication and coordination with other providers or school staff as needed.
       • Covered ABA services are limited to activities that are considered to be behavior assessments or interventions
         using applied behavioral analysis techniques.                              
                                                                                    
      Whose services are covered as part of “applied behavioral analysis (ABA)”?    
       • A licensed physician (MD or DO) who is a psychiatrist, developmental pediatrician or pediatric neurologist
       • A licensed psychiatric nurse practitioner (NP), advanced nurse practitioner (ANP) or advanced registered nurse
         practitioner (ARNP)                                                        
                                                                                    
       • A licensed occupational or speech therapist                                
       • A licensed psychologist (PhD)                                              
       • A licensed community mental or behavioral health agency that is state-certified to provide ABA therapy
       • A Board-Certified Behavior Analyst (BCBA), who is state licensed in states that license behavior analysts (like
         Washington), or certified by the Behavior Analyst Certification Board in states that do not license. BCBAs are
         only covered for ABA therapy that is within the scope of their license or board certification.
       • A therapy assistant/behavioral technician/paraprofessional when their services are supervised and billed by a
         licensed provider or a BCBA                                                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          53                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Neurodevelopmental  (Habilitation) Therapy                                   
       A treatment option for patients with neurological problems. The treatment is a hands-on approach that must be
       medically necessary to restore and improve or maintain function to enhance patient ability. This benefit includes
       physical, speech, and occupational therapy assessments and evaluations related to treatment of covered
       neurodevelopmental or habilitation therapy.                                  
                                                                                    
        Important things to know:                                                   
         • A visit is counted as one treatment for each type of therapy. Multiple visits with the same provider in one
           day count as one visit. If you see three different providers in one day, that will count as three visits.
         • Habilitation therapy is therapy that assists a person to keep, learn or improve skills and functioning for
           daily living.                                                            
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Cost Overview                                                                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         What is covered? What is the limit?       What will I pay?                 
                                           In-network         Out-of-network        
                                                                                    
          Outpatient care 25 visits / year $45 copay, deductible waived Not covered 
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                        Deductible, then 30%                        
           Inpatient care 30 days / year                       Not covered          
                                           coinsurance                              
       Benefit Overview                                                             
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                       • Physical, speech, and occupational therapy assessments related to treatment
         What services are                                                          
            included?  • Outpatient care is covered when the member isn’t confined in a hospital or other
                        medical facility.                                           
                       • Inpatient facility services must be provided and billed by a hospital or rehabilitation
                        facility that meets our clinical standards and will only be covered when services
         Whose services are can’t be done in a less intensive setting.              
            covered?                                                                
                       • Outpatient services must be provided and billed by a hospital or rehabilitation facility
                        that meets our clinical standards, physician, physical, occupational or speech
                        therapist, chiropractor, or naturopath.                     
                       • Gym or swim therapy                                        
                       • Custodial care                                             
         What is excluded? • Recreational, vocational, or education therapies       
         (Premera pays 0%)                                                          
                       • Exercise or maintenance level programs                     
                       • Social or cultural therapy                                 
                       • Treatment that isn’t actively engaged in by the ill, injured, or impaired member
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          54                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                       • See Rehabilitation Therapy, Psychological and Neuropsychological Testing
                        for details on when to apply that benefit.                  
                       • See Mental Health Care for therapies provided for mental health conditions, such
                        as autism.                                                  
          Related benefit                                                           
           information • If you are using Rehabilitation Therapy for the same treatment reason, this benefit
                        can’t be applied at the same time. Once the maximum has been met for either, no
                        additional benefits are available.                          
                       • You must get a prior authorization from us before you get inpatient treatment. See
                        Prior Authorization for details.                            
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          55                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Newborn  Care                                                                
       Care your baby gets during and immediately after birth.                      
                                                                                    
         Important things to know:                                                  
         •  Newborn care is not covered at 100%. See Cost Overview below.           
         •  Newborn children are covered automatically for the first 3 weeks from birth when the mother is eligible
            to receive maternity care benefits under this plan.                     
         •  To continue benefits beyond the 3-week period, see Eligibility and Enrollment and When Coverage
            Begins.                                                                 
         •  Your newborn on your health plan may need to meet their own deductible. 
         •  A typical birth results in multiple charges for things like the facility, professional services, and tests
            used to diagnose your newborn’s condition. You may receive separate bills for each charge.
         •  You must enroll your newborn or newly adopted child within 60 days of the date of birth or date of
            adoption. This is not automatic.                                        
                                                                                    
       Cost Overview                                                                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         What is covered? What is the limit?       What will I pay?                 
                                           In-network         Out-of-network        
                                                                                    
                                        Deductible, then 30%                        
           Newborn care    No limit                            Not covered          
                                           coinsurance                              
                                                                                    
       Benefit Overview                                                             
                       • Inpatient newborn care, including routine newborn exams while the child is in the
                        hospital after birth                                        
                       • Circumcision                                               
                                                                                    
                       The following services are covered, when ordered by the attending provider and
         What services are based on accepted medical practice:                      
            included?                                                               
                       • Nursery care (including NICU)                              
                       • Follow-up care at home from the attending provider, a home health agency, or a
                        registered nurse                                            
                       • Any required readmissions to a hospital and outpatient or emergency room services
                        for medically necessary treatment of an illness or injury   
                       • Physician (MD or DO), or a physician’s assistant           
         Whose services are • Certified nurse midwife (CNM)                         
            covered?                                                                
                       • A licensed midwife                                         
                       • Advanced registered nurse practitioner (ARNP)              
                       • See Preventive Care for information about visiting the provider’s office after you
          Related benefit take your newborn home, including immunizations and well-child exams.
           information                                                              
                       • Certain laboratory services and ultrasounds are billed separately. See Diagnostic
                        X-ray, Lab and Imaging.                                     
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          56                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Pediatric Care                                                               
       This plan covers pediatric services until the end of the month of a member's 19th birthday when all eligibility
       requirements are met.                                                        
                                                                                    
       Pediatric Vision                                                             
       Coverage for routine eye exams and hardware for members under age 19.        
                                                                                    
       Cost Overview                                                                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         What is covered? What is the limit?        What will I pay?                
                                             In-network       Out-of-network        
                                                                                    
          Comprehensive                                     $30 copay, deductible   
                           One / year  $30 copay, deductible waived                 
           vision exam                                           waived             
                                                                                    
                        One pair of glasses /                                       
            Glasses                          No charge          No charge           
                             year                                                   
                                                                                    
                       One pair of contacts or                                      
                         12-month supply of                                         
            Contacts    contacts per calendar No charge         No charge           
                       year instead of glasses                                      
                        (lenses and frames)                                         
                                                                                    
                        One comprehensive                                           
                        low vision evaluation                                       
           Low vision                                                               
                       and 4 follow-up visits in No charge      No charge           
           evaluation                                                               
                         a 5 calendar year                                          
                            period                                                  
         Low vision devices One / year       No charge          No charge           
                                                                                    
       Benefit Overview                                                             
                                                                                    
                       • Vision exams, including dilation and with refraction, by an ophthalmologist or an
                        optometrist. A vision exam may consist of external and ophthalmoscopic
                        examination, determination of the best corrected visual acuity, determination of the
                        refractive state, gross visual fields, basic sensorimotor examination and glaucoma
                        screening.                                                  
         What services are • Glasses, frames and lenses                             
            included?                                                               
                       • Contact lenses instead of glasses                          
                       • Contact lenses or glasses required for medical reasons     
                       • Comprehensive low vision evaluation and follow up visits   
                       • Low vision devices, high power spectacles, magnifiers and telescopes when
                        medically necessary                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          57                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                       • This plan does not cover routine adult vision exams to test visual acuity and/or to
         What is excluded? prescribe any type of vision hardware for members age 19 and older.
         (Premera pays 0%) • Vision therapy, eye exercise, or any sort of training to correct muscular imbalance
                        of the eye (orthoptics), and pleoptics, treatment or surgeries to improve the
                        refractive character of the cornea or results of such treatments.
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          58                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Prescription Drugs                                                           
                                                                                    
       This benefit covers prescription drugs that are approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) that
       your provider prescribes, and you get from a licensed pharmacy for take-home use.
                                                                                    
       Cost Overview                                                                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
        Important things to know:                                                   
                                                                                    
         • This plan uses a prescription drug formulary. Please refer to your ID card for your prescription drug
           formulary.                                                               
         • If your copay is higher than the cost of a drug, you will always pay the lower amount.
         • For specialty drugs to be covered, you must use an in-network specialty pharmacy.
         • You can find a list of covered drugs (formulary) on premera.com. Certain drugs need prior approval, see
           Prior Authorization for more details.                                    
         • A covered drug you may be taking can change from preferred to non-preferred or become not covered.
           This can happen at any time throughout the year, if this does occur, we’ll notify you in writing 60 days
           before the change happens.                                               
         • If you participate in a Health Savings Account (HSA) – Per Internal Revenue Service requirements, drug
           manufacturer coupons and other forms of cost-share assistance cannot be used to satisfy this plan's
           deductible.                                                              
         • Some preventive drugs have limits on how often you and/or who should get them. The limits are often
           based on your age or gender. After one of these limits is reached, these services are not covered in full
           and you may have to pay more out-of-pocket costs.                        
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
        What is covered?                    What will I pay?                        
                                                                                    
                                In-network                Out-of-network            
                                                                                    
                                     Retail Pharmacy                                
                                                                                    
         Preferred generic                                                          
                          $10 copay, deductible waived      Not covered             
            drugs                                                                   
                                                                                    
         Preferred brand                                                            
                        Deductible, then 30% coinsurance    Not covered             
          name drugs                                                                
                                                                                    
          Non-preferred                                                             
         generic and non-                                                           
                        Deductible, then 50% coinsurance    Not covered             
         preferred brand                                                            
          name drugs                                                                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          59                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                   Mail-Order Pharmacy                              
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         Preferred generic                                                          
                          $30 copay, deductible waived      Not covered             
            drugs                                                                   
                                                                                    
         Preferred brand                                                            
                        Deductible, then 30% coinsurance    Not covered             
          name drugs                                                                
          Non-preferred                                                             
         generic and non-                                                           
                        Deductible, then 50% coinsurance    Not covered             
         preferred brand                                                            
          name drugs                                                                
                                                                                    
                                   Specialty Pharmacy                               
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         Specialty drugs                                                            
         (per prescription Deductible, then 50% coinsurance Not covered             
            or refill)                                                              
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
          Needles and                                                               
           syringes                                                                 
                                No charge                  Not covered              
         purchased with                                                             
          diabetic drugs                                                            
                                                                                    
         Nicotine Habit-                                                            
                                No charge                  Not covered              
         Breaking Drugs                                                             
                                                                                    
          Drugs on the                                                              
         Affordable Care                                                            
                                No charge                  Not covered              
         Act’s preventive                                                           
            drug list                                                               
                                                                                    
             Oral                                                                   
                                                     In-network deductible, then 30%
          chemotherapy   Deductible, then 30% coinsurance                           
                                                            coinsurance             
            drugs                                                                   
         Contraceptives         No charge                   Not covered             
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          60                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Benefit Overview                                                             
                                                                                    
                       • FDA approved formulary prescription drugs. Federal law requires a prescription for
                        these drugs. They are known as "legend drugs”.              
                       • Glucagon and allergy emergency kits                        
                       • Inhalers, supplies and peak flow meters                    
                                                                                    
                       • Some drugs that treat complex or rare health conditions are only covered at
                        specialty pharmacies.                                       
                       • Prescribed preventive drugs required by the Affordable Care Act
                       • Compound medications that contain at least one covered prescription drug
                       • Certain prescription and generic over-the-counter drugs to break a nicotine habit
                       • Drugs associated with an emergency medical condition       
                       Diabetic Drugs and Supplies                                  
                                                                                    
                       • Prescribed drugs for shots that you give yourself, such as insulin. (Your cost-shares
                        for covered prescription insulin drugs will not exceed $35 per 30-day supply of the
                        drug and the deductible does not apply. Cost-shares for covered prescription insulin
         What services are                                                          
                        drugs apply towards the deductible.)                        
            included?                                                               
                       • Needles, syringes, alcohol swabs, test strips, testing agents, and lancets
                       Oral Chemotherapy                                            
                       • Drugs you take by mouth that can be used to kill cancer cells or slow their growth.
                        This benefit only covers the drugs that you get from a pharmacy.
                       Human growth hormone                                         
                       • Human growth hormone is covered only for medical conditions that affect growth. It
                        is not covered when the cause of short stature is unknown. Human growth hormone
                        is a specialty drug.                                        
                       Contraceptives                                               
                       • All FDA-approved prescription and over-the-counter oral contraceptive drugs,
                        supplies, and devices, including emergency contraceptives that are required to be
                        covered by state or federal law. You must buy over-the-counter supplies and
                        devices at the pharmacy counter.                            
                       • Can receive up to a 12-month supply for contraceptive drugs
                       • Over-the-counter drugs and supplies that aren’t listed above as covered, even if you
                        have a prescription                                         
                       • Non-formulary drugs                                        
                       • Blood or blood derivatives                                 
                       • Drugs used to improve your looks, such as drugs to increase hair growth
                       • Drugs for experimental or investigational use              
                       • Infusion therapy drugs or solutions, drugs requiring parenteral administration or use,
         What is excluded? and healthcare provider administered injectable medications
         (Premera pays 0%) • More refills than the number prescribed, or any refill dispensed more than one year
                        after the prescriber’s original order                       
                       • Drugs for use while you’re in a health care facility or provider’s office
                       • Replacement of lost or stolen medication                   
                       • Drugs to treat sexual dysfunction                          
                       • Drugs to manage your weight                                
                                                                                    
                       • Immunization agents and vaccines                           
                       • Drugs for fertility treatment or assisted reproduction procedures
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          61                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                       • For shots, or devices from your provider, see Preventive Care.
                       • For details on how to submit an out-of-network pharmacy claim, see the How Do I
                        File a Claim section.                                       
                       • For coverage related to medical equipment and supplies, see Home Medical
          Related benefit Equipment (HME), Orthotics, Prosthetics and Supplies.     
           information • For blood or blood derivatives coverage, see Blood Products and Services.
                       • See Infusion Therapy for solutions and drugs that you get through a shot,
                        intravenous needle, catheter, or a feeding tube.            
                       • To learn more about what experimental or investigational means, see Definitions.
                       • Certain drugs need prior approval. See Prior Authorization.
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Getting Your Prescriptions Filled                                            
             Pharmacy      Supply Limit              What to do                     
                                                                                    
        In-network retail or specialty                                              
                          30 days at a time Pay the amount you’re responsible for at the pharmacy.
             pharmacies                                                             
                                     Ask your provider to prescribe up to a 90-day supply.
                                     Fill your prescription one of two ways:        
          In-network mail-order      • Download the “Home Delivery Order Form” on premera.com
                          90 days at a time                                         
             pharmacy                 and send via mail                             
                                     • Call Premera customer service at 1-800-607-0546 (TTY:711)
                                     Allow 2 weeks for your prescription to be filled.
       Note: Out-of-network retail, mail order, and specialty pharmacies are not covered.
                                                                                    
       Additional Information                                                       
       The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approves prescription drugs for specific health conditions or
       symptoms. Some drugs are prescribed for uses other than those the FDA has approved. This is known as “off-
       label use”.                                                                  
       Benefits available under this plan will be provided for “off-label” use, including administration, of prescription drugs
       for treatment of a covered condition when use of the drug is recognized as effective for treatment of such
       condition from:                                                              
       1) One of the following standard reference compendia:                        
        • The American Hospital Formulary Service-Drug Information                  
        • The American Medical Association Drug Evaluation                          
        • The United States Pharmacopoeia-Drug Information                          
        • Other authoritative compendia as identified from time to time by the Federal Secretary of Health and Human
          Services or the Insurance Commissioner                                    
       2) If not recognized by one of the standard reference compendia cited above, then recognized by the majority of
          relevant, peer-reviewed medical literature (original manuscripts of scientific studies published in medical or
          scientific journals after critical review for scientific accuracy, validity, and reliability by independent, unbiased
          experts).                                                                 
       3) The Federal Secretary of Health and Human Services                        
       Benefits aren't available for any drug when the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has determined its use
       to be contra-indicated, or for experimental or investigational drugs not otherwise approved for any indication by
       the FDA.                                                                     
       Prescription Drug Formulary                                                  
                                                                                    
       This benefit uses a specific list of covered prescription drugs, sometimes referred to as a "formulary". Our
       Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee, which includes medical practitioners and pharmacists from the
       community, frequently reviews current medical studies and pharmaceutical information. The Committee then
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          62                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       makes recommendations on which drugs are included on our drug lists. The drug lists are updated quarterly
       based on the Committee's recommendations.                                    
       The formulary includes both generic and brand name drugs. Consult the List of Covered Drugs (Formulary) on
       our website or contact customer service for a complete list of your plan's covered prescription drugs.
       Drugs not included in the formulary are not covered by this plan.            
                                                                                    
       Exceptions Request for Non-Formulary Drugs                                   
       You or your provider may request that you get a non-formulary drug or dose that is not on the drug list either in
       writing, electronically, or by telephone. Under some circumstances, such as the ones listed below, a non-
       formulary drug may be covered if one of the following is true:               
       • There is no formulary drug or alternative available.                       
       • You cannot tolerate the formulary drug.                                    
                                                                                    
       • The formulary drug or dose is not safe or effective for your condition.    
                                                                                    
       Your provider must give us a written or oral statement providing a justification in support of the need for the non-
       formulary drug to treat your condition, including a statement that all covered formulary drugs on any tier will be (or
       have been) ineffective, and would not be as effective as the non-formulary drug, or would have adverse side
       effects. We will review your request and let you or your provider know within 72 hours in writing if it is approved. If
       approved, your cost will be as shown on the Covered Services for formulary generic and brand name drugs and
       will be covered for the duration of the prescription. If your request is not approved and you choose to purchase
       the brand name drug, the drug will not be covered.                           
       Expedited Exceptions Request for Non-Formulary Drugs                         
       If exigent circumstances exist, you or your provider may request that you get a non-formulary drug or a dose that
       is not on the drug list. Exigent circumstances include when you are suffering from a health condition that may
       seriously jeopardize your life, health or ability to regain maximum body function or when you are undergoing a
       current course of treatment using a non-formulary drug. In addition to your provider's justification for the non-
       formulary drug as described above, your provider will need to give us an oral or written statement that confirms
       that an exigency exists, including the basis for the exigency—the harm that could reasonably come to you if the
       requested non-formulary drug was not provided within the timeframes of the standard exceptions request. We will
       respond to the request within 24 hours of receipt of the required information from the provider.
       External Review for Non-Formulary Drugs                                      
       If you disagree with our decision you have the right to an additional review through an Independent Review
       Organization (IRO). An IRO is an independent organization of medical reviewers who are certified by the State of
       Washington Department of Health to review medical and other relevant information. There is no cost to you for
       this review.                                                                 
       We will let you and your provider know the decision within 72 hours (24 hours in the case of an expedited review).
       If the IRO grants your request for an exception, you can review your cost in the Covered Services section for
       formulary generic and brand name drugs. The IRO's granted exception will be in effect for the duration of the
       prescription.                                                                
       Pharmacy Management                                                          
       Sometimes benefits for prescription drugs may be limited to one or more of the following:
       • A specific number of days' supply or a specific drug or drug dosage appropriate for a usual course of treatment
       • Certain drugs for a specific diagnosis                                     
       • Certain drugs from certain pharmacies, or you may need to get prescriptions from an appropriate medical
         specialist or a specific provider                                          
       • Step therapy, meaning you must try a generic drug or a specified brand name drug first
       • Drug synchronization, meaning the coordination of medication refills for a patient taking two or more
         medications for a chronic condition such that the patient's medications are refilled on the same schedule for a
         given time period. Cost-shares are adjusted if the fill is less than the standard refill amount in compliance with
         state law.                                                                 
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          63                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       These limitations are based on medical criteria, the drug maker's recommendations, and the circumstances of the
       individual case. They are also based on U.S. Food and Drug Administration guidelines, published medical
       literature and standard medical references.                                  
       Dispensing Limits                                                            
       Benefits are limited to a certain number of days' supply as shown in the Covered Services section. Sometimes a
       drug maker's packaging may affect the supply in some other way. We will cover a supply greater than normally
       allowed under your plan if the packaging does not allow a lesser amount. Exceptions to this limit may be allowed
       as required by law. For example, a pharmacist can authorize an early refill of a prescription for topical ophthalmic
       products in certain circumstances. You must pay a copay for each limited days' supply.
                                                                                    
       Preventive Drugs                                                             
       Benefits for certain preventive care prescription drugs will be as shown in the Covered Services section when
       received from network pharmacies. Contact customer service or visit our website to inquire about whether a drug
       is on our preventive care list.                                              
       Using In-network Pharmacies                                                  
       When you use an in-network pharmacy, always show your Premera ID Card. As a member, you will not be
       charged more than the allowed amount for each prescription or refill. The pharmacy will also submit your claims to
       us. You only have to pay the deductible, copay or coinsurance as shown in the Covered Services section.
       If you do not show your Premera ID Card, you will be charged the full retail cost. Then you must send us your
       claim for reimbursement. Reimbursement is based on the allowed amount. See How Do I File A Claim? for
       instructions.                                                                
                                                                                    
       This plan does not cover prescription drugs from out-of-network pharmacies.  
                                                                                    
       Specialty Pharmacy Programs                                                  
       The Specialty Pharmacy Program includes drugs that are used to treat complex or rare conditions. These drugs
       need special handling, storage, administration, or patient monitoring. This plan covers these drugs as shown in
       the Covered Services section                                                 
       Specialty drugs are high-cost often self-administered injectable drugs. They are used to treat conditions such as
       rheumatoid arthritis, hepatitis, multiple sclerosis or growth disorders (excluding idiopathic short stature without
       growth hormone deficiency). We contract with specific specialty pharmacies that specialize in these drugs.
       To find our in-network specialty pharmacies. Visit the pharmacy section of our website at premera.com or call
       customer service for more information.                                       
       Drug Discount Programs                                                       
       Premera may receive drug rebates or discounts.                               
       • Your benefit programs include per-claim rebates that Premera receives from its pharmacy benefit manager or
         other vendors. We consider these rebates when we set the subscription charges, or we credit them to
         administrative charges that we would otherwise pay. These rebates are not reflected in your allowed amount.
       • We also may receive discounts from our pharmacy benefit manager or other vendors. These discounts are
         reflected in your allowed amount. If the allowed amount for prescription drugs is higher than the price we pay
         after our discount, then Premera does one of two things with this difference:
       • We keep the difference and apply it to the cost of our operations and the prescription drug benefit program.
       • We credit the difference to premium rates for the next benefit year.       
       • If your benefit includes a copay, coinsurance calculated as a percentage, or a deductible, the amount you pay
         and your account calculations are based on the allowed amount.             
       • If you participate in a Health Savings Account (HSA) – Per Internal Revenue Service requirements, drug
         manufacturer coupons and other forms of cost-share assistance cannot be used to satisfy this plan's
         deductible.                                                                
       Your Right to Safe and Effective Pharmacy Services                           
       State and federal laws establish standards to assure safe and effective pharmacy services, and to guarantee your
       right to know what drugs that are covered under this plan and what coverage limitations are in your contract. If
       you want more information about the drug coverage policies under this plan, or if you have a question or a
       concern about your pharmacy benefit, please call customer service. The phone numbers are shown in Contact
       Information.                                                                 
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          64                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       If you want to know more about your rights under the law, or if you think anything you received from this plan may
       not conform to the terms of your contract, you may contact the Washington State Office of Insurance
       Commissioner at 1-800-562-6900. If you have a concern about the pharmacists or pharmacies serving you,
       please call the State Department of Health at 360-236-4825.                  
       Questions and Answers about Your Prescription Drug Benefits                  
                                                                                    
       Does this plan exclude certain drugs my health care provider may prescribe, or encourage substitution
       for some drugs?                                                              
       Your prescription drug benefit uses a drug list. (This is sometimes referred to as a "formulary".) We review medical
       studies, scientific literature and other pharmaceutical information to choose safe and effective drugs for the
       prescription drug formulary. This plan doesn't cover certain categories of drugs. These are listed above under
       "What's Not Covered". Non-formulary medications may be covered only on an exception basis for members
       meeting medical necessity criteria.                                          
       Certain formulary drugs are subject to pre-dispensing medical necessity review. As part of this review, some
       prescriptions may require additional medical information from the prescribing provider, or substitution of
       equivalent medication.                                                       
       See Prior Authorization for details.                                         
       When can my plan change the prescription drug formulary? If a change occurs, will I have to pay more to
       use a drug I had been using?                                                 
       The formulary is updated frequently throughout the year. See "Prescription Drug Formulary" above. If changes are
       made to the drug list prior to the quarterly update, you will receive a letter advising you of the change that may
       affect your cost share.                                                      
       What should I do if I want a change from limitations, exclusions, substitutions, or cost increases for
       drugs specified in this plan?                                                
       The limitations and exclusions applicable to your prescription drug benefit, including categories of drugs for which
       no benefits are provided, are part of this plan's overall benefit design, and can't be changed. Provisions regarding
       substitution of some drugs are described above in question 1.                
       You can appeal any decision you disagree with. See Complaints and Appeals, or call our customer service
       department at the telephone numbers listed in Contact Information for information on how to initiate an appeal.
       How much do I have to pay to get a prescription filled?                      
       The amount you pay for covered drugs dispensed by a retail pharmacy, mail-order pharmacy or specialty
       pharmacy is described in the Cost Overview.                                  
                                                                                    
       Do I have to use certain pharmacies to pay the least out of my own pocket under this plan?
       Yes. You only receive benefits when you have your prescriptions filled by participating pharmacies. The majority of
       pharmacies in Washington are part of our pharmacy network.                   
       You can find a participating pharmacy near you by consulting your provider directory or calling the Pharmacy
       Locator Line at the toll-free telephone number found on the back of your Premera ID card.
       How many days' supply of most medications can I get without paying another copay or other repeating
       charge?                                                                      
       The dispensing limits (or days' supply) for drugs dispensed at retail pharmacies and through the mail-order
       pharmacy benefit are described in the "Dispensing Limit" provision above.    
       Benefits for refills will be provided only when the member has used 75% of a supply of a single medication. The
       75% is calculated based on both of the following:                            
       • The number of units and days' supply dispensed on the last refill          
       • The total units or days' supply dispensed for the same medication in the 180 days immediately before the last
         refill                                                                     
       What other pharmacy services does my health plan cover?                      
       This benefit is limited to covered prescription drugs and specified supplies and devices dispensed by a licensed
       participating pharmacy. Other services, such as diabetic education or medical equipment, are covered by the
       medical benefits of this plan, and are described elsewhere in this booklet.  
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          65                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Preventive Care                                                              
       Preventive care is a specific set of evidence-based services expected to prevent future illness. It is performed for
       routine screening purposes when you do not have signs or symptoms of a condition. These services are based
       on guidelines established by government agencies and professional medical societies.
                                                                                    
       Services are considered preventive when recommended or required by:          
          • United States Preventive Services Task Force (A or B rating)            
          • Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (immunizations)              
          • Health Resources and Services Administration (screenings and care for women, children, teens).
          • Washington state law                                                    
       Visit healthcare.gov for more information.                                   
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         Important things to know:                                                  
         •  Preventive services provided by in-network providers are covered in full. If you go out of network, cost
            shares may apply.                                                       
         •  Monitoring a chronic medical condition is not preventive care.          
         •  Even at a preventive visit, you may get non-preventive care:            
           •  Providers can order a non-preventive test (even alongside preventive tests).
           •  If you discuss a sign, symptom, or condition, you may be billed for a regular Professional Visit.
         •  If a test was ordered to evaluate a sign, symptom, or health concern, it is Diagnostic.
         •  The maximum number of visits covered is recommended by the United States Preventive Services
            Task Force, Centers of Disease Control and Prevention, and Health Resources and Services
            Administration, as applicable.                                          
                                                                                    
       Cost Overview                                                                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         What is covered? What is the limit?       What will I pay?                 
                                            In-network        Out-of-network        
                                                                                    
          Screening tests  No limit         No charge          Not covered          
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
           Colon cancer                                                             
                           No limit         No charge          Not covered          
            screening                                                               
                                                                                    
          Wellness exams   No limit         No charge          Not covered          
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         Contraceptives and                                                         
                           No limit         No charge          Not covered          
           tubal ligation                                                           
            Nutritional                                                             
          counseling and   No limit         No charge          Not covered          
             therapy                                                                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
        Immunizations in the                                                        
                           No limit         No charge          Not covered          
          provider’s office                                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          66                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
            Seasonal                                                                
         immunizations at a                                                         
                           No limit         No charge           No charge           
         pharmacy or mass                                                           
         immunizer location                                                         
             Travel                                                                 
         immunizations at a                                                         
           travel clinic or No limit        No charge           No charge           
           county health                                                            
           department                                                               
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
        Health education and                                                        
                           No limit         No charge          Not covered          
         training (outpatient)                                                      
          Nicotine habit-                                                           
                           No limit         No charge          Not covered          
         breaking programs                                                          
                                                                                    
       Benefit Overview                                                             
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                       Wellness exams, including those for school, sports, and jobs 
                       Screening tests and imaging, such as:                        
                        • Mammograms (including 3-D)                                
                        • Pap smears                                                
                                                                                    
                        • Prostate-specific antigen tests                           
                        • BRCA genetic tests for members at risk for certain breast cancers
                        • Diabetes screening                                        
                       Colon cancer screening (for high-risk individuals and all individuals 45 years of age
                       or older):                                                   
                        • Pre-colonoscopy consultation and exam                     
                        • Barium enema                                              
                                                                                    
                        • Colonoscopy, sigmoidoscopy, and fecal occult blood tests  
         What services are • If polyps are found during the screening, their removal and lab tests are covered
            included?     as preventive.                                            
                        • Medically necessary anesthesia                            
                        • Colonoscopies as follow-up to a positive non-invasive stool-based screening
                          tests                                                     
                                                                                    
                       Contraceptives and tubal ligation:                           
                        • Contraceptive devices, shots, and implants, including anesthesia. This plan will
                          cover up to 12-month supply of contraceptive drugs.       
                        • Plan B (emergency contraceptive)                          
                        • Tubal ligation (other services, like anesthesia, are covered as preventive only
                          if tubal ligation is the primary procedure)               
                                                                                    
                       Routine maternity care:                                      
                        • Routine prenatal exams and tests                          
                        • Breastfeeding support and counseling                      
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          67                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                        • Standard breast pump (bought from approved suppliers)     
                          Call Premera customer service for a list of approved suppliers.
                        • Rental of hospital-grade breast pump                      
                                                                                    
                       Outpatient nutritional counseling and therapy for obese adults and children, and
                       members at risk for health conditions affected by diet.      
                       Immunizations, including seasonal and for travel.            
                       Pre-exposure (PrEP) for members at high-risk for HIV infection.
                       Health education and training:                               
                                                                                    
                        • Outpatient programs and classes to help you manage pain or cope with covered
                          conditions like heart disease, diabetes, or asthma        
                        • The program or class must take place in an approved setting, like a hospital.
                       Nicotine habit-breaking programs.                            
                                                                                    
         What is excluded? • Gym memberships/fees or exercise classes or programs   
         (Premera pays 0%)                                                          
                       • Exams for insurance or work-related disability purposes    
                       • For tests and services to evaluate a sign, symptom or health, see Diagnostic, X-
                        ray, Lab and Imaging.                                       
                       • See Prescription Drugs for take-home or over-the-counter items.
                       • See Newborn Care for routine newborn exams when the child is in the hospital
          Related benefit                                                           
                        after birth.                                                
           information                                                              
                       • If tubal ligation is a secondary procedure, it is still covered as preventive. However,
                        related services like anesthesia are covered under the primary procedure. See
                        Hospital and Surgery.                                       
                       • For vasectomy, see Surgery.                                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          68                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Professional Visits and Services                                             
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Care by a qualified provider to examine, diagnose, or treat an illness or injury. This includes app-based care,
       which connects a member to qualified providers via a telemedicine application (app).
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
        Important things to know:                                                   
        You can get care:                                                           
           • At a provider’s office or other medical setting                        
           • At home, when medically necessary                                      
           • Virtually (secure chat, text, voice or video)                          
            • Schedule a virtual visit with an office-based provider (you’ll pay for an office visit), or
            • Use a Premera-designated app to get care (see Virtual Care) Call Premera for a list of covered
              apps.                                                                 
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Cost Overview                                                                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         What is covered? What is the limit?       What will I pay?                 
                                           In-network         Out-of-network        
                                                                                    
          Designated PCP                                                            
                                      No charge first 2 visits; then                
          office and clinic                                                         
                           No limit     $15 copay, deductible Not covered           
          visits (including                                                         
                                            waived                                  
           virtual care)                                                            
          Office visits for                                                         
                                        $15 copay, deductible                       
        women’s health (e.g. No limit                         Not covered           
                                            waived                                  
           gynecologist)                                                            
            All other                                                               
         professional office                                                        
          and clinic visits No limit  $45 copay, deductible waived Not covered      
        (including specialists                                                      
         and non-specialists)                                                       
       Benefit Overview                                                             
                                                                                    
         What services are • Care by a qualified provider to examine, diagnose, or treat illness or injury
            included?                                                               
                       • Second opinions for any covered medical diagnosis or treatment plan
                       • Hair analysis or non-prescription medicines, such as herbal, naturopathic or
         What is excluded?                                                          
                        homeopathic medicines or devices                            
         (Premera pays 0%)                                                          
                       • EEG biofeedback or neurofeedback services                  
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          69                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                       • For preventive services like wellness exams, see Preventive Care.
                       • For surgical procedures performed in a provider’s office, surgical suite or other
                        facility, see Surgery.                                      
          Related benefit • For mental health conditions, see Mental Health Care.   
           information                                                              
                       • Facilities may be billed separately, see Hospital.         
                       • Lab tests or images may be billed separately, see Diagnostic X-Ray, Lab, And
                        Imaging.                                                    
                       • See Home Health Care and Hospice Care for care in those settings.
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          70                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Psychological and Neuropsychological Testing                                 
       Psychological and neuropsychological evaluation necessary to prescribe an appropriate treatment plan.
                                                                                    
       Cost Overview                                                                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         What is covered? What is the limit?       What will I pay?                 
                                           In-network         Out-of-network        
                                                                                    
         Psychological and                                                          
                                        Deductible, then 30%                        
        Neuropsychological No limit                            Not covered          
                                           coinsurance                              
             testing                                                                
       Benefit Overview                                                             
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                       • Psychological and neuropsychological testing and scoring   
         What services are • Future re-testing to make sure the treatment is achieving the desired medical result
            included?                                                               
                       • Interpretation and report preparation necessary to prescribe an appropriate
                        treatment plan                                              
                                                                                    
                       • For services related to a mental health condition, see Mental Health Care.
                       • See Rehabilitation Therapy for physical, speech, or occupational therapy
          Related benefit                                                           
                        assessments related to rehabilitation.                      
           information                                                              
                       • See Neurodevelopmental (Habilitation) Therapy for therapy assessments related
                        to neurodevelopmental conditions.                           
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          71                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Rehabilitation Therapy                                                       
       Therapy that helps get a part of the body back to normal health or function. It includes therapy to restore or
       improve a function that was lost because of an accidental injury, illness, or surgery, or to treat disorders caused by
       a physical congenital anomaly.                                               
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
        Important things to know:                                                   
         • You must get approval from Premera before getting treatment at an inpatient rehabilitation center.
           Services must be prescribed in writing by your provider. The prescription must include site, type of
           therapy, how long and how often you should get the treatment. See Prior Authorization for details.
         • Premera reviews proposed outpatient physical, occupational, and massage therapy for medical
           necessity before you receive the care. Your first six visits to the therapist are not subject to this review.
           There is no penalty to you if your provider does not ask for the review before providing additional visits.
           The review will then be done at the time the claim is submitted.         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Cost Overview                                                                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         What is covered? What is the limit?       What will I pay?                 
                                           In-network         Out-of-network        
                                                                                    
          Outpatient care 25 visits / year $45 copay, deductible waived Not covered 
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                         30 days / year Deductible, then 30%                        
           Inpatient care                                      Not covered          
                                           coinsurance                              
                                                                                    
       Benefit Overview                                                             
                                                                                    
                       Inpatient Care is covered when:                              
                       • It’s medically necessary and you cannot get these services in a less intensive care
                        setting.                                                    
                       • Provided by a specialized inpatient rehab center (this could be part of a hospital)
                                                                                    
         What services are • The care is part of a written treatment plan prescribed by your provider.
            included?                                                               
                       Outpatient Care is covered for:                              
                       • Physical, speech, hearing, and occupational therapies, assessments, and
                        evaluations related to rehab                                
                       • Cochlear implants                                          
                       • Home medical equipment, medical supplies, and devices      
                       • Physical therapist                                         
         Whose services are • Occupational therapist                                
            covered?                                                                
                       • Speech language pathologist                                
                       • Any other licensed provider practicing within the scope of their license
                                                                                    
         What is excluded? • Treatment that the ill, injured, or impaired member does not actively take part in
         (Premera pays 0%)                                                          
                       • Therapy for flat feet except to help you recover from surgery to correct flat feet
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          72                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                       • For services related to a mental health condition, see Mental Health Care.
                       • Chronic conditions such as cancer, chronic pulmonary or respiratory disease,
                        cardiac disease or other similar chronic conditions or diseases are covered as any
          Related benefit                                                           
                        other medical condition and do not accrue to rehabilitation therapy limits.
           information                                                              
                       • If you are using Neurodevelopmental (Habilitation) Therapy for the same
                        treatment reason, this benefit can’t be applied at the same time. Once the maximum
                        has been met for either, no additional benefits are available.
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          73                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Skilled Nursing Facility Care                                                
       Medically necessary care in a facility which specializes in rehabilitation, usually to help you transition from a
       hospital stay to getting home.                                               
                                                                                    
         Important things to know:                                                  
                                                                                    
         •  Your provider must obtain prior authorization for all planned skilled nursing facility stays. See Prior
            Authorization for details.                                              
                                                                                    
       Cost Overview                                                                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         What is covered? What is the limit?       What will I pay?                 
                                           In-network         Out-of-network        
                                                                                    
          Skilled nursing               Deductible, then 30%                        
                         60 days / year                        Not covered          
           facility care                   coinsurance                              
                                                                                    
          Long-term care                Deductible, then 30%                        
                         60 days / year                        Not covered          
             facility                      coinsurance                              
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Benefit Overview                                                             
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                       • Room and board                                             
                       • Skilled nursing services                                   
                       • Supplies and drugs                                         
         What services are                                                          
            included?  • Skilled nursing care during some stages of recovery        
                       • Skilled rehabilitation provided by physical, occupational, or speech therapists while
                        in a skilled nursing facility                               
                       • Active supervision by your provider while in the skilled nursing facility
                                                                                    
                       • Acute nursing care                                         
         What is excluded?                                                          
                       • Skilled nursing facility stay not immediately following hospitalization
         (Premera pays 0%)                                                          
                       • Skilled nursing care outside of a hospital or skilled nursing facility
                       • For information about getting care in your home, see At-Home Care.
          Related benefit • For acute nursing care, see Hospital.                   
           information                                                              
                       • See Ambulance for transportation services that are covered when going from the
                        hospital to a skilled nursing facility.                     
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          74                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Substance  Use Disorder                                                      
       Substance Use Disorder is when the use of alcohol or another substance (drug) leads to someone’s health being
       in danger, and/or leads to problems at work, home, or school. Please call customer service for help with finding a
       provider.                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Cost Overview                                                                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         What is covered? What is the limit?       What will I pay?                 
                                           In-network         Out-of-network        
                                                                                    
          Office and clinic                                                         
                           No limit   $45 copay, deductible waived Not covered      
             visits                                                                 
                                                                                    
            Outpatient                                                              
                                        Deductible, then 30%                        
           professional    No limit                           Not covered           
                                           coinsurance                              
            services                                                                
         Inpatient care and                                                         
                                        Deductible, then 30%                        
         residential facility No limit                        Not covered           
                                           coinsurance                              
              care                                                                  
         Outpatient facility            Deductible, then 30%                        
                           No limit                           Not covered           
              care                         coinsurance                              
                                                                                    
       Benefit Overview                                                             
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                       • Diagnosis and treatment of substance use disorder          
                       • Inpatient and residential treatment and outpatient care (including virtual care) to
                        manage or reduce the effects of the alcohol or drug dependence
                       • Individual, family or group therapy                        
         What services are                                                          
                       • Laboratory and testing services                            
            included?                                                               
                       • Take-home drugs you get in a facility                      
                       • Detoxification, when medically necessary; emergency detoxification is only covered
                        in a hospital                                               
                       • When medically appropriate, services may be provided in your home.
                       • A physician (MD or DO) who is a psychiatrist, developmental pediatrician, or
                        pediatric neurologist                                       
                       • A hospital                                                 
                       • A state hospital maintained by the state of Washington for the care of mental health
         Whose services are conditions                                              
            covered?                                                                
                       • A state-licensed psychiatric nurse practitioner (NP), advanced nurse practitioner
                        (ANP) or advanced registered nurse practitioner (ARNP)      
                       • A state-licensed mental health clinician (e.g., licensed clinical social worker,
                        licensed marriage and family counselor, licensed mental health counselor)
                       • A state-licensed psychologist                              
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          75                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                       • Services provided by a state-approved substance abuse treatment program or other
                        state-licensed community mental health agency or behavioral health agency
                                                                                    
                       • Testing used to diagnose a non-covered substance use disorder or to plan
                        treatment                                                   
                       • Halfway houses, quarter way houses, recovery houses, and other sober living
         What is excluded?                                                          
                        residences                                                  
         (Premera pays 0%)                                                          
                       • Drug or alcohol testing done for school or employment      
                       • Treatment of alcohol or drug use or abuse that doesn’t meet the definition of
                        Substance Use Disorder as stated in the Definitions section 
                       • Some services require prior approval. See Prior Authorization for details.
          Related benefit • See the Emergency Services and Hospital benefits for information related to
           information  emergency detoxification.                                   
                       • This plan will comply with federal mental health parity requirements.
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          76                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Surgery                                                                      
       Surgery can be needed for many reasons. It can be done to relieve or prevent pain, improve bodily function,
       investigate a problem, or save your life.                                    
                                                                                    
       Cost Overview                                                                
                                                                                    
         Important things to know:                                                  
         •  A typical surgery can result in multiple charges for things like the facility and professional services, you
            may receive separate bills for each charge.                             
         •  Some outpatient surgeries must have prior authorization before you have them. See Prior
            Authorization for details.                                              
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         What is covered? What is the limit?       What will I pay?                 
                                           In-network         Out-of-network        
                                                                                    
                                        Deductible, then 30%                        
             Surgery       No limit                           Not covered           
                                           coinsurance                              
                                                                                    
            Outpatient                                                              
                                        Deductible, then 30%                        
           professional    No limit                           Not covered           
                                           coinsurance                              
            services                                                                
         Outpatient surgical            Deductible, then 30%                        
                           No limit                           Not covered           
           center facility                 coinsurance                              
                                                                                    
            Vasectomy      No limit        No charge          Not covered           
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          77                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Benefit Overview                                                             
                                                                                    
                       • Surgical services, including injections, when performed on an inpatient or outpatient
                        basis                                                       
                       • Vasectomy                                                  
                                                                                    
                       • Anesthesia or sedation                                     
                       • Medically necessary postoperative care                     
                       • Transfusion of blood or blood derivatives (storage is covered only when medically
                        necessary)                                                  
                       • Correction of functional disorders                         
                       • Cochlear implants                                          
         What services are                                                          
            included?  • Cornea transplantation, skin grafts, and repair of a dependent child’s congenital
                        anomaly                                                     
                       • Medically necessary surgery to correct the cause of infertility. This doesn’t include
                        assisted reproduction techniques or sterilization reversal. 
                       • Diagnostic colonoscopy and sigmoidoscopy services not covered under Preventive
                        Care                                                        
                       • Biopsies and scope insertion procedures such as endoscopies
                       • Reconstructive surgery that is needed because of an injury, infection or other illness
                       • Sexual reassignment surgery if medically necessary         
                       • Outpatient surgical center services and supplies           
                                                                                    
                       • Hospital                                                   
                                                                                    
                       • Ambulatory surgical centers                                
         Whose services are                                                         
                       • Surgical suite                                             
            covered?                                                                
                       • Provider’s office                                          
                       • Services provided by a surgeon                             
                       • Removal of excess skin or fat related to either weight loss surgery or the use of
                        drugs for weight loss                                       
         What is excluded? • The use of an anesthesiologist for monitoring and administering general anesthesia
         (Premera pays 0%) for endoscopies, colonoscopies and sigmoidoscopies unless medically necessary
                        when specific medical conditions and risk factors are present
                       • Cosmetic surgery                                           
                       • See Mastectomy and Breast Reconstruction for those covered services.
                       • For preventive colonoscopy benefits, see Preventive Care.  
          Related benefit • For gender affirming surgery benefits, see Gender Affirming Care.
           information                                                              
                       • For organ, bone marrow, or stem cell transplant procedure benefits, see
                        Transplants.                                                
                       • See Hospital for your facility cost share amounts.         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          78                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Temporomandibular   Joint Disorders Care (TMJ)                               
       Temporomandibular joint disorders (TMJ) are problems that affect the chewing muscles and joints that connect
       your lower jaw to your skull.                                                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         Important things to know:                                                  
          • Some services covered with TMJ treatment could have additional costs, such as X-rays, hospital,
            and surgery.                                                            
                                                                                    
         Examples of symptoms linked with TMJ include:                              
          • Muscle pain.                                                            
          • Headaches.                                                              
          • Arthritic problems.                                                     
          • Clicking or locking in the jawbone.                                     
          • An abnormal range of motion or limited motion of the jawbone joint.     
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Cost Overview                                                                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         What is covered? What is the limit?       What will I pay?                 
                                           In-network         Out-of-network        
                                                                                    
          Office and clinic           See Professional Visits and                   
                           No limit                            Not covered          
             visits                         Services                                
                                                                                    
                                        Deductible, then 30%                        
        Inpatient facility care No limit                       Not covered          
                                           coinsurance                              
                                                                                    
            Inpatient                                                               
                                        Deductible, then 30%                        
           professional    No limit                            Not covered          
                                           coinsurance                              
            services                                                                
       Benefit Overview                                                             
                                                                                    
                       • Consultations                                              
         What services are                                                          
                       • Exams                                                      
            included?                                                               
                       • Treatment                                                  
         What is excluded?                                                          
                       • A bite guard                                               
         (Premera pays 0%)                                                          
          Related benefit • Most TMJ services require prior authorization before you get them. See Prior
           information  Authorization for details.                                  
       Additional Information                                                       
                                                                                    
       “Medical Services” for the purpose of this TMJ benefit are those that meet all of the following
       requirements:                                                                
          • Reasonable and appropriate for the treatment of a disorder of the temporomandibular joint,
            under all the factual circumstances of the case.                        
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          79                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
          • Effective for the control or elimination of one or more of the following, caused by a disorder
            of the temporomandibular joint: pain, infection, disease, difficulty in speaking, or difficulty in
            chewing or swallowing food.                                             
          • Recognized as effective, according to the professional standards of good medical practice.
          • Not experimental or investigational, according to the criteria stated under Definitions, or
            primarily for cosmetic purposes.                                        
       “Dental Services” for the purpose of this TMJ benefit are those that meet all of the following
       requirements:                                                                
          • Reasonable and appropriate for the treatment of a disorder of the temporomandibular joint,
            under all the factual circumstances of the case.                        
          • Effective for the control or elimination of one or more of the following, caused by a disorder
            of the temporomandibular joint: pain, infection, disease, difficulty in speaking, or difficulty in
            chewing or swallowing food.                                             
          • Recognized as effective, according to the professional standards of good dental practice.
          • Not experimental or investigational, according to the criteria stated under the Definitions
            section, or primarily for cosmetic purposes.                            
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          80                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Therapeutic Injections                                                       
       Minimally invasive treatment to help reduce swelling and relieve pain in an affected joint or muscle.
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
        Important things to know:                                                   
         • Some injections require approval from Premera before they happen. See Prior Authorization for
           details.                                                                 
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Cost Overview                                                                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         What is covered? What is the limit?       What will I pay?                 
                                           In-network         Out-of-network        
                                                                                    
           Therapeutic                  Deductible, then 30%                        
                           No limit                            Not covered          
            Injections                     coinsurance                              
                                                                                    
       Benefit Overview                                                             
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                       • Shots given in the provider’s office                       
         What services are                                                          
                       • Supplies used during the visit, such as serums, needles, and syringes
            included?                                                               
                       • Three teaching doses for self-injectable specialty drugs   
                       • See Prescription Drugs for self-injectable specialty drug coverage.
          Related benefit • For immunization benefits, see Preventive Care.         
           information                                                              
                       • For allergy shot benefits, see Allergy Testing and Treatment.
                       • See Infusion Therapy for drug therapy and pain management benefit details.
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          81                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Transplants                                                                  
       Benefits for donating or receiving an organ, bone marrow, or stem cell to be transplanted/reinfused.
                                                                                    
        Important things to know:                                                   
         •  Prior authorization for transplants is required. (See Prior Authorization for details.)
         •  You must have the transplant at an in-network provider or an Approved Transplant Center. An
            Approved Transplant Center is a hospital or other provider that has developed expertise in performing
            organ transplants or bone marrow or stem cell reinfusion.               
         •  We have agreements with Approved Transplant Centers in Washington. Whenever
            medically possible, we will direct you to an Approved Transplant Center that we've
            contracted with for transplant services. Please call customer service.  
         •  You must pay for all travel expenses up front and then submit a Claim Reimbursement
            Form. See Medical Transportation for benefit limits and details.        
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Cost Overview                                                                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         What is covered? What is the limit?       What will I pay?                 
                                           In-network         Out-of-network        
                                                                                    
          Office and clinic           See Professional Visits and                   
                           No limit                           Not covered*          
             visits                         Services                                
                                                                                    
                                        Deductible, then 30%                        
        Inpatient facility care No limit                      Not covered*          
                                           coinsurance                              
                                                                                    
            Inpatient                                                               
                                        Deductible, then 30%                        
           professional    No limit                           Not covered*          
                                           coinsurance                              
            services                                                                
       *All Approved Transplant Centers are covered at the in-network level of benefits
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          82                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Benefit Overview                                                             
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                       Organ transplants and bone marrow/stem cell reinfusion procedures covered:
                       • Heart                                                      
                       • Heart/double lung                                          
                       • Single/double lung                                         
                       • Liver                                                      
                                                                                    
                       • Kidney                                                     
                       • Pancreas                                                   
                       • Pancreas with kidney                                       
                       • Bone marrow (autologous and allogeneic)                    
         What services are • Stem cell (autologous and allogeneic)                  
            included?                                                               
                       Transplant Recipient                                         
                       • Transplant and reinfusion related expenses, including preparation
                       • Anti-rejection drugs administered by the transplant center during inpatient or
                        outpatient stay                                             
                       Transplant Donor                                             
                       • Selection, removal, and evaluation of donor organ, bone marrow, or stem cell
                                                                                    
                       • Transportation of donor organ, bone marrow, or stem cells, including surgical and
                        harvesting teams                                            
                       • Donor acquisition costs such as testing and typing expenses
                       • 12-month storage costs for bone marrow and stem cells      
                                                                                    
                       • Whenever medically possible, we’ll help you find an Approved Transplant Center for
                        these services.                                             
         Whose services are                                                         
            covered?   • If none of our centers or Approved Transplant Centers can provide the type of
                        transplant you need, this benefit will cover one that meets the written approval
                        standards we follow.                                        
                       • Services and supplies that are payable by any government, foundation, or
                        charitable grant. This includes services performed on potential or actual living
                        donors and recipients, and on cadavers.                     
                       • Donor costs for an organ transplant or bone marrow stem cell reinfusion for a
                        recipient who isn’t a member                                
         What is excluded?                                                          
                       • Expenses for persons other than the patient and their covered companion
         (Premera pays 0%)                                                          
                       • Non-human or mechanical organs, unless we determine they aren’t experimental or
                        investigational services                                    
                       • Personal care items                                        
                       • Planned storage of blood for more than 12 months against the possibility it might be
                        used at some point in the future                            
                       • Travel and Lodging expenses are covered under the Medical Transportation
                        benefit.                                                    
          Related benefit                                                           
                       • See Surgery benefit for coverage details for cornea transplantation, skin grafts, and
           information                                                              
                        the transplant of blood or blood derivatives (except for bone marrow or stem cells).
                       • Prior authorization for transplants is required. See Prior Authorization for details.
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          83                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Additional Information                                                       
                                                                                    
       The medical indications for the transplant, document effectiveness of the procedure to treat the
       condition, and failure of medical alternatives are all reviewed.             
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          84                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Urgent Care                                                                  
       Same-day care for medical issues that need urgent attention but are not life threatening.
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         Important things to know:                                                  
         •  Some Urgent Care Centers can be out-of-network, even if they are attached to, or part of a hospital
            that is in-network.                                                     
         •  An urgent care visit can result in multiple charges for things like the facility, shots, and tests used to
            diagnose your condition. You may receive separate bills for each charge.
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Cost Overview                                                                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         What is covered? What is the limit?       What will I pay?                 
                                           In-network         Out-of-network        
                                                                                    
         Freestanding urgent                                                        
                           No limit   $45 copay, deductible waived Not covered      
           care centers                                                             
                                                                                    
         Urgent care centers                                                        
                                        Deductible, then 30% In-network deductible, then
         attached to, or part No limit                                              
                                           coinsurance       30% coinsurance        
           of a hospital                                                            
       Benefit Overview                                                             
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                       Exams and treatment such as:                                 
                       • Sprains                                                    
         What services are • Cuts                                                   
            included?                                                               
                       • Ear, nose, and throat infections                           
                       • Fever                                                      
                       • Urinary Tract Infections (UTI)                             
                       • You may have additional costs for other services such as x-rays and lab. See those
                        covered services for details.                               
          Related benefit                                                           
                       • For tests received while at urgent care, see Diagnostic, X-Ray, Lab, and Imaging.
           information                                                              
                       • See Prescription Drugs for benefits related to medications for use after you leave
                        the urgent care center.                                     
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          85                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Virtual Care                                                                 
       On-demand virtual care that connects you to providers. Benefits are provided for services for low-level conditions
       using virtual methods like secure chat, text, voice or video chat. Virtual care select providers can be found at
       www.premera.com/visitor/virtual-care or contact Premera customer service for assistance.
                                                                                    
        Important things to know:                                                   
                                                                                    
        Services must meet the following requirements:                              
        • Covered service under this plan                                           
                                                                                    
        • Originating site: Hospital, rural health clinic, federally qualified health center, physician’s or other health
          care provider office, community mental health center, skilled nursing facility, home, or renal dialysis
          center, except an independent renal dialysis center                       
        • If the service is provided through store and forward technology, there must be an associated office visit
          between the member and the referring provider                             
        • Is Medically Necessary                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Cost Overview                                                                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         What is covered?                         What will I pay?                  
                        What is the limit?                                          
                                          In-network       Out-of-network           
                                     See Professional Visits and                    
         Virtual General Visit No limit                     Not covered             
                                           Services                                 
                                                                                    
        Virtual Mental Health         $45 copay, deductible                         
                           No limit                         Not covered             
              Visit                        waived                                   
                                                                                    
         Virtual Substance            $45 copay, deductible                         
                           No limit                         Not covered             
         Use Disorder Visit                waived                                   
                                                                                    
       Benefit Overview                                                             
                                                                                    
                       • Chat                                                       
         What services are • Text                                                   
            included?  • Voice                                                      
                       • Audio messaging and video chat                             
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940001 (01-2024)          86                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    