                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Exclusions and Limitations                                                   
                                                                                    
       This section of your booklet lists services that are either limited or not covered by this plan.
       Benefit or Service Exclusion                                                 
       Amounts over the  Costs over the allowed amount as defined by this plan for non-emergency services
       Allowed Amount    from a non-participating provider.                         
                                                                                    
       Assisted Reproduction Assisted reproduction technologies, including but not limited to:
                            • Drugs to treat infertility or that are required as part of assisted reproduction
                              procedures                                            
                            • Artificial insemination or assisted reproduction methods, such as in-vitro
                              fertilization. It does not matter why you need the procedure.
                            • Services to make you more fertile or for multiple births
                            • Reversing sterilization surgery                       
       Benefits from other Services that are covered by other types of insurance or coverage, such as:
       sources              • Motor vehicle medical or motor vehicle no-fault coverage
                            • Any type of no-fault coverage, such as Personal Injury Protection (PIP),
                              Medical Payment coverage or Medical Premises coverage 
                            • Any type of liability insurance, such as homeowners' coverage or
                              commercial liability coverage                         
                            • Any type of excess coverage                           
                            • Boat coverage                                         
                            • School or athletic coverage                           
       Benefits that have been Services in excess of benefit limitations or maximums of this plan.
       exhausted                                                                    
       Broken or missed  Broken or missed appointments, including charges from providers for broken or
       appointments      missed appointments.                                       
                                                                                    
       Caffeine Dependency                                                          
                                                                                    
       Charges for records or Charges from providers for supplying records or reports that aren’t requested by
       reports           Premera for utilization review.                            
       Complications of a non- Includes follow-up services or effects of those services.
       covered service                                                              
                                                                                    
       Cosmetic Services Drugs, services, or supplies for cosmetic services that are not medically necessary.
                         This includes services performed to reshape normal structures of the body in order
                         to improve or alter your appearance and not primarily to restore an impaired
                         function of the body. This does not apply to services that are determined to be
                         medically necessary for Gender Affirming Care.             
       Counseling, Education Counseling, education, or training in the absence of illness or injury, including but
       and Training      not limited to:                                            
                            • Job help and outreach                                 
                            • Social or fitness counseling                          
                            • Acting as a tutor, helping a member with schoolwork, acting as an
                              educational or other aide for a member while the member is at school, or
                              providing services that are part of a school’s individual education program
                              or should otherwise be provided by school staff       
                            • Private school or boarding school tuition             
                            • Community wellness or safety programs                 
       Court-Ordered Services Services that you must get to avoid being tried, sentenced, or losing the right to
                         drive when they are not medically necessary.               
       Custodial Care    Custodial services that are not covered hospice care services.
       Dental Care       Dental care or supplies, that are not covered under any dental benefits.
       49831WA1940004 (01-2024)          87                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       EEG biofeedback or neurofeedback services                                    
                                                                                    
       Environmental Therapy Therapy designed to provide a changed or controlled environment.
       Experimental or   Experimental or investigational services or supplies, including any complications or
       Investigational Services effects of such services. This does not apply to certain services that are part of an
                         approved clinical trial.                                   
       Family Members or Services or supplies that you provide to yourself. It also doesn’t cover a provider
       Volunteers        who is:                                                    
                            • Your spouse, mother, father, child, brother, or sister
                            • Your mother, father, child, brother, or sister by marriage
                            • Your stepmother, stepfather, stepchild, stepbrother, or stepsister
                            • Your grandmother, grandfather, grandchild, or their spouse
                            • A volunteer                                           
       Governmental Facilities Services provided by a state or federal facility that are not emergency services or
                         required by law or regulation.                             
                                                                                    
       Hair Analysis                                                                
                            • Drugs, supplies, equipment, or procedures to replace hair, slow hair loss,
       Hair Loss                                                                    
                              or stimulate hair growth                              
                            • Hair prostheses, such as wigs or hair weaves, transplants and implants
       Hearing Exams     Hearing exams and testing used to prescribe or fit hearing aids and any associated
                         service or supply.                                         
       Hearing Hardware  Hearing aids and devices used to improve hearing sharpness and any associated
                         service or supply. However, the plan does cover medically necessary cochlear
                         implants as shown in the Surgery and Rehabilitation Therapy benefits.
       Illegal Acts, Illegal Illness or injury you get while committing a felony, an act of terrorism, or an act of
       Services, and Terrorism riot or revolt, as well as any service that is illegal under state or federal law.
       Low-level laser therapy                                                      
       Military Service and War Illness or injury that is caused by or arises from: 
                            • Acts of war, such as armed invasion, no matter if war has been declared or
                              not                                                   
                            • Services in the armed forces of any country, including any related civilian
                              forces or units                                       
       Non-Covered Services Services or supplies directly related to any non-covered condition.
                            • Ordered when this plan is not in effect or when the person is not covered
                              under this plan                                       
                            • Provided to someone other than the ill or injured member
                            • That are not listed as covered under this plan        
                            • Services and supplies for which no charge is made, for which none would
                              have been made if this plan were not in effect, or for which you are not
                              legally required to pay                               
                            • Non-treatment charges, including charges for provider time
                            • Transporting a member in place of a parent or other family member or
                              accompanying the member to appointments or other activities outside the
                              home, such as medical appointments or shopping.       
                            • Doing housework or chores for the member or helping the member do
                              housework or chores                                   
                            • Institutional care                                    
       Non-Treatment                                                                
                            • Housing                                               
       Facilities, Institutions or                                                  
                            • Incarceration                                         
       Programs                                                                     
                            • Programs from facilities that are not licensed to provide medical or
                              behavioral health treatment for covered conditions    
                         Examples are prisons, nursing homes, and juvenile detention facilities
       Orthodontia       Orthodontic services, including casts, models, x-rays, photographs, examinations,
       49831WA1940004 (01-2024)          88                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                         appliances, braces, and retainers.                         
       Orthognathic Surgery Procedures to lengthen or shorten the jaw not required due to temporomandibular
                         joint disorder, injury, sleep apnea or congenital anomaly. 
                            • Personal services or items such as meals for guests while hospitalized,
       Personal comfort or                                                          
                              long-distance phone, radio or TV, personal grooming, and babysitting
       convenience items                                                            
                            • Normal living needs, such as food, clothes, housekeeping, and transport.
                              This doesn't apply to chores done by a home health aide as prescribed in
                              your treatment plan.                                  
                            • Dietary assistance, including "Meals on Wheels"       
       Provider’s Licensing or Services that are outside the scope of the provider’s license or certification or any
       Certification     unlicensed or uncertified providers.                       
       Recreational, Camp and Recreational, camp and activity-based programs. These programs are not
       Activity Programs medically necessary and include:                           
                            • Gym, swim and other sports programs, camps, and training
                            • Creative art, play and sensory movement and dance therapy
                            • Recreational programs and camps                       
                            • Boot camp programs, outward bound programs and tall-ship programs
                            • Equine programs and other animal-assisted programs and camps
                            • Exercise and maintenance-level programs               
                            • Hiking, and other adventure programs and camps        
       Serious Adverse Events Serious Adverse Events are hospital injury(ies) caused by medical management
       and Never Events  that prolonged the hospitalization, and/or produces a disability at the time of
                         discharge.                                                 
                         Never Events are events that should never occur, such as a surgery on the wrong
                         patient, surgery on the wrong body part or a wrong surgery.
                         Members and this plan are not responsible for payment of services provided by in-
                         network providers for serious adverse events, never events and resulting follow-up
                         care. Serious adverse events and never events are medical errors that are specific
                         to a nationally published list. They are identified by specific diagnoses codes,
                         procedure codes and specific present-on-admission indicator codes. In-Network
                         providers may not bill members for these services and members are held
                         harmless.                                                  
                         Not all medical errors are defined as serious adverse events or never events. You
                         can obtain a list of serious adverse events and never events by contacting us or on
                         the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) website.
       Services or Supplies Not Services or supplies that are not medically necessary even if they are court
       Medically Necessary ordered. This also includes places of service, such as inpatient hospital care or
                         stays.                                                     
       Sexual Dysfunction Diagnosis and treatment of sexual dysfunctions, regardless of origin or cause;
                         surgical, medical, or psychological treatment of impotence or hypoactive sexual
                         desire disorder, including drugs, medications, or penile or other implants.
       Vision Exams      Routine vision exams to test visual acuity and/or to prescribe any type of vision
                         hardware for members 19 and older.                         
       Vision Hardware   Vision hardware (and their fittings) used to improve visual sharpness, including
                         eyeglasses and contact lenses and related supplies for members 19 and older.
                         This plan never covers eyeglasses or contact lenses or other special purpose
                         vision aids (such as magnifying attachments), sunglasses or light-sensitive lenses,
                         even if prescribed.                                        
       Vision Therapy    Vision therapy, eye exercise, or any sort of training to correct muscular imbalance
                         of the eye (orthoptics), and pleoptics treatment or surgeries to improve the
                         refractive character of the cornea, or results of these treatments.
       Voluntary Support Patient support, consumer, or affinity groups such as diabetic support groups or
       Groups            Alcoholics Anonymous.                                      
       49831WA1940004 (01-2024)          89                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Weight Loss Surgery or Surgery, drugs or supplements for weight loss or weight control.
       Drugs                                                                        
                                                                                    
       Work-Related Illness or Any illness, condition, or injury for which you get benefits under:
       Injury               • Separate coverage for illness or injury on the job    
                            • Workers compensation laws                             
                            • Any other law that would repay you for an illness or injury you get on the
                              job                                                   
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940004 (01-2024)          90                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Other Coverage                                                               
                                                                                    
       Note: If you participate in a Health Savings Account (HSA) and have other healthcare coverage that is not a high
       deductible health plan as defined by IRS regulations, the tax deductibility of the Health Savings Account
       contributions may not be allowed. Contact your tax advisor or HSA plan administrator for more information.
       COORDINATING BENEFITS WITH OTHER HEALTH PLANS                                
       When you have more than one health plan, "coordination of benefits (COB)" makes sure that the combined
       payments of all your plans don't exceed your covered health costs. You or your provider should file your claims
       with your primary plan first. If you have Medicare, Medicare may submit your claims to your secondary plan. See
       COB's Effect on Benefits later in this section for details on primary and secondary plans.
       If you do not know which plan is your primary plan, you or your provider should contact any of the health plans to
       verify which plan is primary. The health plan you contact is responsible for working with the other plan(s) to
       determine which is primary and will let you know within 30 calendar days.    
       Caution: All health plans have timely filing requirements. If you or your provider fails to submit your claim to your
       secondary plan within that plan's claim filing time limit, the plan can deny the claim. If you experience delays in the
       processing of your claim by the primary plan, you or your provider will need to submit your claim to the secondary
       plan within its claim filing time limit to prevent a denial of the claim.    
       To avoid delays in claims processing, if you are covered by more than one plan you should promptly report to your
       providers any changes in your coverage.                                      
       COB DEFINITIONS                                                              
                                                                                    
       For the purposes of COB:                                                     
        Plan             • A plan is any of the following that provides benefits or services for medical or
                          dental care. If separate contracts are used to provide coordinated coverage for
                          group members, all the contracts are considered parts of the same plan and
                          there is no COB among them. However, if COB rules don't apply to all contracts,
                          or to all benefits in the same contract, the contact or benefit to which COB doesn't
                          apply is treated as a separate plan.                      
                         • "Plan" means: Group, individual or blanket disability insurance contracts, and
                          group or individual contracts issued by health care service contractors or HMOs,
                          closed panel plans or other forms of group coverage; medical care provided by
                          long-term care plans; and Medicare or any other federal governmental plan, as
                          permitted by law.                                         
                         • "Plan" doesn't mean: Hospital or other fixed indemnity or fixed payment
                          coverage; accident-only coverage; specified disease or accident coverage;
                          limited benefit health coverage, as defined by state law; school accident type
                          coverage; non-medical parts of long-term care plans; automobile coverage
                          required by law to provide medical benefits; Medicare supplement policies;
                          Medicaid or other federal governmental plans, unless permitted by law.
                         • This plan means your plan's health care benefits to which COB applies. A
                          contract may apply one COB process to coordinating certain benefits only with
                          similar benefits and may apply another COB process to coordinate other benefits.
                          All the benefits of your Premera plan are subject to COB, but your plan
                          coordinates dental benefits separately from medical benefits. Dental benefits are
                          coordinated only with other plans' dental benefits, while medical benefits are
                          coordinated only with other plans' medical benefits.      
        Primary Plan     Primary plan is a plan that provides benefits as if you had no other coverage.
        Secondary Plan   Secondary plan is a plan that can reduce its benefits in accordance with COB rules.
                         See COB’s Effect on Benefits later in this section for rules on secondary plan
                         benefits.                                                  
        Allowable Expense Allowable expense is a healthcare expense, including deductibles, coinsurance and
                         copays, that is covered at least in part by any of your plans. When a plan provides
                         benefits in the form of services, the reasonable cash value of each service is an
                         allowable expense and a benefit paid. An amount that is not covered by any of your
                         plans is not an allowable expense.                         
       49831WA1940004 (01-2024)          91                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                         The allowable expense for the secondary plan is the amount it allows for the service
                         or supply in the absence of other coverage that is primary. This is true regardless of
                         what method the secondary plan uses to set allowable expenses.
                         The exceptions to this rule are when a Medicare, a Medicare Advantage plan, or a
                         Medicare Prescription Drug plan (Part D) is primary to your other coverage. In those
                         cases, the allowable expense set by the Medicare plan will also be the allowable
                         expense amount used by the secondary plan.                 
                                                                                    
        Custodial Parent Custodial parent is the parent awarded custody by a court decree or, in the absence
                         of a court decree, is the parent with whom the child resides more than half of the
                         calendar year, excluding any temporary visitation.         
        Gatekeeper       Gatekeeper requirements are any requirements that an otherwise eligible person
        Requirements     must fulfill prior to receiving the benefits of a plan. Examples are restrictions of
                         coverage to providers in a network, prior authorization, or primary care provider
                         referrals.                                                 
       PRIMARY AND SECONDARY RULES                                                  
       Certain governmental plans, like Medicaid, are always secondary by law. Except as required by law, Medicare
       supplement plans and other plans that don't coordinate benefits at all must pay as if they were primary.
       A plan that doesn't have a coordination of benefits provision that complies with this plan's rules is primary to this
       plan unless the rules of both plans make this plan primary. The exception is group coverage that supplements a
       package of benefits provided by the same group. Such coverage can be excess to the rest of that group's plan.
                                                                                    
       The first of the rules below to apply decides which plan is primary. If you have more than one secondary plan, the
       rules below also decide the order of the secondary plans to each other.      
                                                                                    
        Non-Dependent or The plan that doesn't cover you as a dependent is primary to a plan that does.
        Dependent        However, if you have Medicare, and federal law makes Medicare secondary to your
                         dependent coverage and primary to the plan that doesn't cover you as a dependent,
                         then the order is reversed.                                
        Dependent Children Unless a court decree states otherwise, the rules below apply:
                         • Birthday rule When the parents are married or living together, whether or not
                          they were ever married, the plan of the parent whose birthday falls earlier in the
                          year is primary. If both parents have the same birthday, the plan that has covered
                          the parent the longest is primary.                        
                         • When the parents are divorced, separated or not living together, whether or not
                          they were ever married:                                   
                          • If a court decree makes one parent responsible for the child's healthcare
                            expenses or coverage, that plan is primary. This rule applies to calendar years
                            starting after the plan is given notice of the court decree.
                          • If a court decree assigns one parent primary financial responsibility for the child
                            but does not mention responsibility for healthcare expenses, the plan of the
                            parent with financial responsibility is primary. If the parent with responsibility
                            has no health care coverage for the dependent child's health care expenses,
                            but that parent's spouse does, then that plan is the primary plan.
                          • If a court decree makes both parents responsible for the child's healthcare
                            expenses or coverage, the birthday rule determines which plan is primary.
                          • If a court decree requires joint custody without making one parent responsible
                            for the child's healthcare expenses or coverage, the birthday rule determines
                            which plan is primary.                                  
                         • If there is no court decree allocating responsibility for the child's expenses or
                          coverage, the rules below apply:                          
                          • The plan covering the custodial parent, first           
                          • The plan covering the spouse of the custodial parent, second
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940004 (01-2024)          92                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                          • The plan covering the non-custodial parent, third       
                          • The plan covering the spouse of the non-custodial parent, last
                                                                                    
                         If a child is covered by individuals other than parents or stepparents, the above
                         rules apply as if those individuals were the parents.      
        Retired or Laid-off The plan that covers you as an active employee (an employee who is neither laid off
        Employee         nor retired) is primary to a plan covering you as a retired or laid-off employee. The
                         same is true if you are covered as both a dependent of an active employee and a
                         dependent of a retired or laid-off employee.               
        TRICARE          If you are a member of the U.S. military (active or retired) or you have dependents
                         enrolled in the TRICARE program, this plan is the primary plan and TRICARE would
                         be secondary, when required by federal law.                
        Continuation     If you have coverage under COBRA or other continuation law, that coverage is
        Coverage         secondary to coverage that is not through COBRA or other continuation law.
                         Note: The retiree/layoff and continuation rules don't apply when both plans don't
                         have the rule or when the "non-dependent or dependent" rule can decide which of
                         the plans is primary.                                      
                                                                                    
        Length of Coverage The plan that covered you longer is primary to the plan that didn't cover you as long.
                         If none of the rules above apply, the plans must share the allowable expenses
                         equally.                                                   
       COB'S EFFECT ON BENEFITS                                                     
                                                                                    
       The primary plan provides its benefits as if you had no other coverage.      
       A plan may take into account the benefits of another plan only when it is secondary to that plan. The secondary
       plan is allowed to reduce its benefits so that the total benefits provided by all plans during a calendar year are not
       more than the total allowable expenses incurred in that year. The total amount paid by the secondary plan in
       combination with the primary plan payment will not be more than one hundred percent of the highest total
       allowable expense of either plan in addition to any savings accrued from prior claims incurred in the
       same calendar year.                                                          
       The secondary plan must credit to its deductible any amounts it would have credited if it had been primary. It must
       also calculate savings for each claim by subtracting its secondary benefits from the amount it would have
       provided as primary. It must use these savings to pay any allowable expenses incurred during that calendar year,
       whether or not they are normally covered.                                    
       If this plan is secondary to a plan with gatekeeper requirements (see COB Definitions), and the member has met
       the primary plan's gatekeeper requirements for a particular service, this plan's gatekeeper requirements will be
       waived for that service. This rule will not apply if an alternative procedure is agreed upon between both plans and
       the member.                                                                  
       Certain facts about your other healthcare coverage are needed to apply the COB rules. We may get the facts we
       need for COB from, or give them to, other plans, organizations or persons. We don't need to tell or get the
       consent of anyone to do this. State regulations require each of your other plans and each person claiming
       benefits under this plan to give us any facts we need for COB. To expedite payment, be sure that you and/or your
       provider supply the information in a timely manner.                          
       If the primary plan fails to pay within 60 calendar days of receiving all necessary information from you and your
       provider, you and/or your provider may submit your claim to the secondary plan to make payment as if the
       secondary plan was primary. In such situations, the secondary plan is required to pay claims within 30 calendar
       days of receiving your claim and notice that your primary plan has not paid. However, the secondary plan may
       recover from the primary plan any excess amount paid under Right of Recovery/Facility of Payment.
       This plan requires you or your provider to ask for a prior authorization from Premera before you get certain
       services or drugs. Your other plan may also require you to get a prior authorization for the same service or drug.
       In that case, when this plan is secondary to your other plan, you will not have to ask Premera for a prior
       authorization of any service or drug for which you asked for a prior authorization from your other plan. This does
       not mean that this plan will cover the service or drug. The service or drug will be reviewed once we receive your
       claim.                                                                       
       49831WA1940004 (01-2024)          93                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       RIGHT OF RECOVERY/FACILITY OF PAYMENT                                        
       The plan has the right to recover any payments that are greater than those required by the coordination of
       benefits provisions from one or more of the following:                       
       • The persons the plan paid or for whom the plan has paid                    
                                                                                    
       • Providers of service                                                       
       • Insurance companies                                                        
       • Service plans or other organizations                                       
       If a payment that should have been made under this plan was made by another plan, the plan also has the right to
       pay directly to another plan any amount that the plan should have paid. Such payment will be considered a
       benefit under this plan and will meet the plan's obligations to the extent of that payment. This plan has the right to
       appoint a third party to act on its behalf in recovery efforts.              
       THIRD PARTY LIABILITY (SUBROGATION)                                          
                                                                                    
       If we make claims payment on your behalf for injury or illness for which another party is liable, or for which
       uninsured/underinsured motorist (UIM) or personal injury protection (PIP) insurance exists, we will be subrogated
       to any rights that you may have to recover compensation or damages from that liable party related to the injury or
       illness, and we would be entitled to be repaid for payments we made on your behalf out of any recovery that you
       obtain from that liable party after you have been fully compensated for your loss. The liable party is also known as
       the "third party" because it is a party other than you or us. This party includes a UIM carrier because it stands in
       the shoes of a third-party tort feasor and because we exclude coverage for such benefits.
       Definitions The following terms have specific meanings in this contract:     
       • Subrogation means we may collect directly from third parties or from proceeds of your recovery from third
          parties to the extent we have paid on your behalf for illnesses or injury caused by the third party and you have
          been fully compensated for your loss.                                     
       • Reimbursement means that you are obligated under the contract to repay any monies advanced by us from
          amounts you have received on your claim after you have been fully compensated for your loss.
       • Restitution means all equitable rights of recovery that we have to the monies advanced under your plan.
          Because we have paid for your illness or injuries, we are entitled to recover those expenses from any
          responsible third-party once you have been fully compensated for your loss.
       To the fullest extent permitted by law, we are entitled to the proceeds of any settlement or judgment that results in
       a recovery from a third party, up to the amount of payments we have made on your behalf after you have been
       fully compensated for your loss. Our right to recover exists regardless of whether it is based on subrogation,
       reimbursement or restitution. In recovering payments made on your behalf, we may at our election hire our own
       attorney to prosecute a subrogation claim for recovery of payments we have made on your behalf directly from
       third-parties, or be represented by your attorney prosecuting a claim on your behalf. Our right to prosecute a
       subrogation claim against third-parties is not contingent upon whether or not you pursue the party at fault for any
       recovery. Our right of recovery is not subject to reduction for attorney's fees and costs under the "common fund"
       or any other doctrine. Notwithstanding such right, if you recover from a third party and we may share in the
       recovery, we will pay our share of the legal expenses. Our share is that percentage of the legal expenses
       necessary to secure a recovery against the liable party that the amount we actually recover bears to the total
       recovery.                                                                    
       Before accepting any settlement on your claim against a third party, you must notify us in writing of any terms or
       conditions offered in a settlement, and you must notify the third party of our interest in the settlement established
       by this provision. In the event of a trial or arbitration, you must make a claim against, or otherwise pursue
       recovery from third-parties payments we have made on your behalf, and give us reasonable notice in advance of
       the trial or arbitration proceeding (see Notice). You must also cooperate fully with us in recovering amounts paid
       by us on your behalf. If you retain an attorney or other agent to represent you in the matter, you must require your
       attorney or agent to reimburse us directly from the settlement or recovery. If you fail to cooperate fully with us in
       the recovery of the payments we have paid on your behalf, you are responsible for reimbursing us for payments
       we have made on your behalf.                                                 
       You agree, if requested, to hold in trust and execute a trust agreement in the full amount of payments we made on
       your behalf from any recovery you obtain from any third-party until such time as we have reached a final
       determination or settlement regarding he amount of your recovery that fully compensates your for your loss.
       49831WA1940004 (01-2024)          94                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       UNINSURED AND UNDERINSURRED MOTORIST/PERSONAL INJURY PROTECTION COVERAGE     
       We have the right to be reimbursed for benefits provided, but only to the extent that benefits are also paid for such
       services and supplies under the terms of a motor vehicle uninsured motorist and/or underinsured motorist (UIM)
       policy, personal injury protection (PIP) or similar type of insurance or contract.
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       How  Do I File a Claim?                                                      
                                                                                    
       Medical Claims                                                               
                                                                                    
       Many providers will submit their bills to Premera directly. However, if you need to submit a claim, follow these
       simple steps:                                                                
                        •  Complete the Claim Reimbursement Form, you can find it on premera.com or call
       Step 1.             customer service to request a copy.                      
       Get the form                                                                 
                        •  A separate form is needed for each patient and each provider.
                      If requesting reimbursement for medical care, include:        
                        •  Proof of payment (if applicable).                        
                        •  An itemized bill that includes:                          
                             •  Name of the patient                                 
                             •  Date of service                                     
                             •  Name, address, and IRS tax ID of the provider       
       Step 2.                                                                      
                             •  Diagnosis code (ICD-10) – You can get this from your provider
       Collect required                                                             
                             •  Procedure code (CPT-4, HCPCS, ADA, or B-04) – You can get this from
       documents                                                                    
                                your provider                                       
                             •  Itemized charge for each service received           
                             •  Member ID numbers for both subscriber and the group 
                      If you’re also covered by another health insurance (including Medicare) and it’s your
                      primary, you must attach a copy of the Explanation of Benefits from the other health plan.
                      To help process your claim, the form must be fully completed, signed, and returned with all
                      required documents. Send your documents one of two ways:      
                        •  Email through your Secure Inbox                          
                           Sign into your account at premera.com and select Secure Inbox.
                           Scan and send the completed form and any required documents back to us as a
                           secure email attachment.                                 
       Step 3.                                                                      
       Send in my claim                                                             
                        •  Mail to                                                  
                           Premera                                                  
                           PO Box 21702                                             
                           Eagan, MN 55121                                          
                      Note: Any highlights or modifications to your bill may delay processing your claim.
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940004 (01-2024)          95                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Prescription Drug Claims                                                     
                      For retail pharmacy purchases:                                
                        •  Show your Premera member ID card to the pharmacist and they will bill us
                           directly.                                                
                                                                                    
                        •  If you don’t show your member ID card, you’ll have to pay the full cost of the
                           prescription and submit the claim yourself.              
        In-Network                                                                  
        Pharmacies                                                                  
                      For mail-order pharmacy purchases:                            
                        •  Follow the instructions on the order form and submit it to the address on the form.
                           Please allow up to 14 days for delivery.                 
                      If you need an in-network mail-order pharmacy order form, contact Premera customer
                      service                                                       
                        •  Complete a Prescription Drug Claim Form and attach any receipts.
        Coordination of                                                             
                        •  Send the form with all required documents to the address on the form.
        Prescription                                                                
        Claims                                                                      
                      If you need a Prescription Drug Claim Form contact Premera customer service
                      Questions?                                                    
                      Contact our pharmacy benefit manager, Express Scripts at:     
                        •  1-800-391-9701                                           
        Where do I send •  Or visit express-scripts.com                             
        my claim?                                                                   
                      Mail your prescription drug claims to:                        
                      Express Scripts                                               
                      PO Box 14711                                                  
                      Lexington, KY 40512-4711                                      
       Timely Filing                                                                
       We must receive claims:                                                      
          • Within 365 days of discharge for hospital or other medical facility expenses
          • Or within 365 days of the date the expenses were incurred for any other services
          • For members who have Medicare, within 90 days of the process date shown on the Explanation of
            Medicare Benefits, whichever is greater                                 
       The plan won’t provide benefits for claims we receive after the later of these 2 dates except when required by law.
       Special Notice About Claims Procedure                                        
       If all you have to pay is a copay for a covered service or supply, your payment of the copay to your provider is not
       considered a claim for benefits. You can call customer service to get a paper copy of an Explanation of Benefits
       for the service or supply.                                                   
                                                                                    
       Additional Information                                                       
       Any notice we're required to send to the subscriber will be considered delivered if it's mailed to the most recent
       address appearing on our records.                                            
       We'll use the postmark date when determining the date of our notification. If you’re required to send us a notice, it
       will be considered delivered 3 days after the postmark date, or if not postmarked, the date we receive it.
       If you only had to pay a copay to your provider for a covered service, that is not considered a claim for benefits. To
       get a paper copy of an explanation of benefits call customer service. Or you can visit premera.com for secure
       online access to your claims.                                                
       Notice Required for Reimbursement and Payment of Claims                      
                                                                                    
       At our option and in accordance with federal and state law, we may pay the benefits of this plan to the eligible
       member, provider, other carrier, or other party legally entitled to such payment under federal or state medical child
       support laws, or jointly to any of these. Such payment will discharge our obligation to the extent of the amount
       49831WA1940004 (01-2024)          96                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       paid so that we will not be liable to anyone aggrieved by our choice of payee.
                                                                                    
       Complaints and Appeals                                                       
       If at any time you have questions regarding your healthcare, you may contact customer service for assistance.
       They are here to serve you and answer your questions.                        
                                                                                    
       If you disagree with a decision we made or feel dissatisfied, and would like us to formally review your concerns,
       you can file a complaint or appeal with Premera.                             
       WHAT IS A COMPLAINT?                                                         
       Other than denial of payment for medical services or nonprovision of medical services, a complaint is when you
       are not satisfied with customer service, quality, or access to medical service, and you want to share it with
       Premera.                                                                     
                                                                                    
       How to file a complaint                                                      
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
        Call customer service at 1-800-607-0546 (TTY: 711) Send the details in writing to:
        Send a fax to 866-903-9899         Premera Blue Cross                       
                                           PO Box 21702                             
                                           Eagan, MN 55121                          
       For complaints received in writing, we will send a written response within 30 days.
                                                                                    
       WHAT IS AN APPEAL?                                                           
       An appeal is a request to review a specific decision or an adverse benefit determination Premera has made.
       An adverse-benefit determination means a decision to deny, reduce, terminate or a failure to provide or to make
       payment, in whole or in part for services. This includes:                    
       • A member’s or applicant’s eligibility to be or stay enrolled in this plan or health insurance coverage
                                                                                    
       • A limitation on otherwise covered benefits                                 
       • A clinical review decision                                                 
       • A decision that a service is experimental, investigative, not medically necessary or appropriate, or not effective
       • A decision related to compliance with protections against balance billing as defined by federal and state law
                                                                                    
       WHAT YOU CAN APPEAL                                                          
                                                                                    
                          Payment    Benefits or charges were not applied correctly, including a limit or
            Claims and               restriction on otherwise covered benefits.     
          prior authorization                                                       
                          Denied     Coverage of your service, supply, device or prescription was
                                     denied or partially denied. This includes prior authorization
                                     denials.                                       
        Enrollment canceled or No Coverage You are not eligible to enroll or stay in the plan.
             not issued                                                             
       APPEAL LEVELS                                                                
       You have the right to two levels of appeals.                                 
                                                                                    
         Appeal Level What it means    Deadline to appeal                           
           Level 1  This is your first appeal. 180 days from the date you were notified of our decision.
          (Internal) Premera will review your                                       
                    appeal.                                                         
                    If we deny your Level 1 180 days from the date you were notified of our Level 1
                    appeal, you can ask for an decision.                            
                    Independent Review                                              
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940004 (01-2024)          97                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                    Organization (IRO) to review                                    
                    your appeal.                                                    
          External  OR                 OR                                           
                    You can ask for an IRO 180 days from the date the response to your Level 1 appeal
                    review if Premera has not was due, if you did not get a response or it was late.
                    made a decision by the                                          
                    deadline for the Level 1                                        
                    appeal. There is no cost to                                     
                    you for an external appeal.                                     
       HOW  TO SUBMIT AN APPEAL IN WRITING                                          
                                                                                    
       Step 1.                         • Complete the Member Appeal Form, you can find it on
                                        premera.com or call customer service to request a copy.
       Get the form                                                                 
                                       If you need help submitting an appeal, or would like a copy of
                                       the appeal process, call customer service.   
       Step 2.                         • Collect any supporting documents that may help with your
                                        appeal. This may include chart notes, medical records, or a
       Collect supporting documents                                                 
                                        letter from your provider. Within 3 working days, we will
                                        confirm in writing that we have your request.
                                       • If you would like someone to appeal on your behalf,
                                        including your provider, complete a Member Appeal Form
                                        with authorization, you can find it on premera.com. We can’t
                                        release your information without this form. 
       Step 3.                         To help process your appeal, be sure to complete the form
                                       and return with any supporting documents.    
       Send in my appeal                                                            
                                       Send your documents to:                      
                                       Premera Blue Cross.                          
                                       Attn: Appeals Coordinator                    
                                       PO Box 21702                                 
                                       Eagan, MN 55121                              
                                       Fax to 866-903-9899                          
       Note: You may also call customer service to verbally submit an appeal.       
       If you would like to review the information used for your appeal, send us a request in writing to:
                                    Premera Blue Cross                              
                                  Attn: Appeals Coordinator                         
                                      PO Box 21702                                  
                                     Eagan, MN 55121                                
                                    Fax: 866-903-9899                               
       Appeal Response Time Limits                                                  
                                                                                    
       We’ll review your appeal and send a decision in writing within the time limits below. The timeframes are based on
       what the appeal is about, not the appeal level. At each level, Premera representatives who have not reviewed the
       case before will review and make a decision. Medical review denials will be reviewed by a medical specialist.
                                                                                    
       Type of Appeal                  When to expect a response                    
       Urgent appeals                  No later than 72 hours. We will call, fax, or e-mail you with the
                                       decision, and follow up in writing.          
                                                                                    
       Pre-service appeals (a decision made by us Within 14 days                    
       before you received services)                                                
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940004 (01-2024)          98                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Appeals of experimental and investigative Within 20 days                     
       denials                                                                      
                                                                                    
       All other appeals               14-30 days                                   
       External appeals                • Urgent appeals within 72 hours             
                                       • Other IRO appeals within 15 days after the IRO gets the
                                        information or 20 days from the date the IRO gets your
                                        request                                     
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       IF WE NEED MORE TIME                                                         
       Except for urgent appeals, we can extend the time limits. We will notify you, if for good cause, more time is
       needed. An extension cannot delay the decision beyond the 30 days without your informed written consent.
       WHAT IF YOU HAVE ONGOING CARE?                                               
                                                                                    
       Ongoing care is continuous treatment you are currently receiving, such as residential care, care for a chronic
       condition, inpatient care and rehabilitation.                                
       If you appeal a decision that affects ongoing care because we've determined the care is no longer medically
       necessary, we will continue to cover your care during the appeal period. This continued coverage during the
       appeal period does not mean that the care is approved. If our decision is upheld, you must repay all amounts we
       paid for ongoing care during the appeal review.                              
       WHAT IF IT’S URGENT?                                                         
       If your condition is urgent, you will get our response sooner. Urgent appeals are only available for services you
       are currently receiving or have not yet received.                            
                                                                                    
       Examples of urgent situations are:                                           
       • Your life or health is in serious danger or a delay in treatment would cause you to be in severe pain that you
         cannot bear, as determined by our medical professional or your treating physician
       • You are requesting coverage for inpatient or emergency services that you are currently receiving
       If your situation is urgent, you may ask for an expedited external appeal at the same time you request an
       expedited internal appeal.                                                   
       HOW  TO ASK FOR AN EXTERNAL REVIEW                                           
                                                                                    
       External reviews will be done by an Independent Review Organization (IRO).   
                                                                                    
                                We’ll tell you about your right to an external review with the written
                                decision of your internal appeal.                   
        Step 1.                                                                     
        Get the form            • Complete the Independent Review Organization (IRO) Request form,
                                  you can find it on premera.com or call customer service to request a
                                  copy. You may also write to us directly to ask for an external appeal.
                                • Collect any supporting documents that may help with your external
                                  review. This may include medical records and other information.
        Step 2.                 • We’ll forward your medical records and other information to the
        Collect supporting documents Independent Review Organization (IRO). We will notify you which IRO
                                  was selected to review your appeal. If you have additional information
                                  on your appeal, you may send it to the IRO directly within five
                                  business days.                                    
                                To help process your external review, be sure to complete the form and
                                return with any supporting documents.               
        Step 3.                                                                     
                                Send your documents to:                             
        Send in my external review request                                          
                                Premera Blue Cross.                                 
                                Attn: Appeals Coordinator                           
                                PO Box 91102                                        
       49831WA1940004 (01-2024)          99                                         
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                Seattle, WA 98111-9202                              
                                Fax to 844-990-0262                                 
       Note: You may also call customer service to verbally submit an external review request.
                                                                                    
       External appeals are available for decisions related to Premera’s compliance with protections against balance
       billing in accordance with federal and state law.                            
       ONCE THE IRO DECIDES                                                         
       For urgent appeals, the IRO will inform you and Premera immediately.         
                                                                                    
       Premera will accept the IRO decision.                                        
       If the IRO:                                                                  
       • Reverses our decision, we will apply their decision quickly.               
       • Stands by our decision, there is no further appeal. However, you may have other steps you can take under
         state or federal law, such as filing a lawsuit.                            
       If you have questions about a denial of a claim or your appeal rights, you may call customer service at the number
       listed on your Premera ID card. Contact Washington Consumer Assistance Program at any time during this
       process if you have any concerns or need help filing an appeal.              
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
         Washington Consumer Assistance Program                                     
         5000 Capitol Blvd                                                          
         Tumwater, WA 98501                                                         
                                                                                    
         1-800-562-6900                                                             
         E-mail: cap@oic.wa.gov                                                     
                                                                                    
       Eligibility And Enrollment                                                   
                                                                                    
       This section outlines who is eligible for coverage and who can be covered under this plan. Only members enrolled
       on this plan can receive its benefits.                                       
       Enrollment and maintenance of coverage on this contract is contingent on the individuals meeting all of the
       following requirements:                                                      
       • They must have completed a Premera enrollment application that includes appropriate signatures and initials or
         have enrolled through the Washington Health Benefit Exchange (The Exchange).
       • They are residents of Washington state.                                    
       • "Resident" means a person who lives in Washington State and intends to remain in the state permanently or
         indefinitely. In no event will coverage be extended to a subscriber or dependent who resides in the state for the
         primary purpose of obtaining health care or health care coverage. The confinement of a person in a nursing
         home, hospital, or other medical institution shall not by itself be sufficient to qualify such person as a resident.
         We may require proof of residency from time to time. Examples of proof include, but shall not be limited to a
         valid photo ID, utility bills, tax or financial records; all documents must show the street address of the
         individual's residence and not a post office box.                          
       • Their principal residence is located within our service area.              
       • They are not entitled to (enrolled in) Medicare on the date coverage would begin.
       • They are not 65 years of age or older, and eligible for Medicare on the date coverage would begin.
       The individuals defined below are eligible to enroll on this contract.       
                                                                                    
        Subscriber       Individuals can only apply during an open enrollment or special enrollment period.
                         See Open Enrollment and Special Enrollment.                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940004 (01-2024)          100                                        
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
        Dependents       To be a dependent under this plan, the family member must be:
                                                                                    
                         • The lawful spouse of the subscriber. For purposes of the rights and benefits of
                          this plan, the term "spouse" also means the domestic partner of the subscriber.
                         • All rights and benefits afforded to a "spouse" under this plan will also be afforded
                          to an eligible domestic partner. In determining benefits for domestic partners and
                          their children under this plan, the term "establishment of the domestic
                          partnership" shall be used in place of "marriage"; the term "termination of the
                          domestic partnership" shall be used in place of "legal separation" and "divorce."
                         • An eligible child who is under 26 years of age, except as provided for in the
                          Continued Eligibility for a Disabled Child section. An eligible child is one of the
                          following:                                                
                          • A natural offspring of either or both the subscriber or spouse
                          • A legally adopted child of either or both the subscriber or spouse
                          • A child placed with the subscriber for the purpose of legal adoption in
                            accordance with state law. "Placed" for adoption means assumption and
                            retention by the subscriber of a legal obligation for total or partial support of a
                            child in anticipation of adoption of such child.        
                          • A legally placed dependent or foster child of the subscriber or spouse. There
                            must be a court or other order signed by a judge or state agency, which grants
                            guardianship of the child to the subscriber or spouse as of a specific date.
                            When the court order terminates or expires, the child is no longer an eligible
                            child.                                                  
                          • A child for whom the subscriber or spouse is required by a medical child
                            support order to provide health coverage.               
                                                                                    
       OPEN ENROLLMENT                                                              
       Families and individuals who wish to enroll in a Premera plan and or to enroll for coverage as a dependent on an
       existing plan may apply only during an open enrollment period. The only exception is for existing dependents
       transferring to an identical contract as stated in Continuation of Coverage on an Identical Contract or if you
       are enrolling a natural newborn or adoptive child whose date of birth or date of placement is after the subscriber's
       effective date of coverage on this plan. In this instance, you must submit the application within 60 days of birth or
       placement for adoption, or a qualifying loss of coverage event.              
       We must receive a completed enrollment application before the end of the open enrollment period. See When
       Coverage Begins for information on effective dates. If the application is not received within the open enrollment
       period, applicants cannot apply for enrollment until the next open enrollment period.
       SPECIAL ENROLLMENT                                                           
       Qualifying Events                                                            
                                                                                    
       Individuals who don't enroll in this plan during a designated open enrollment period may later enroll in this plan
       outside of an open enrollment period only if one of the following is met:    
       • Birth of a newborn child                                                   
       • Marriage or entering into a domestic partnership, including eligibility as a dependent
       • Placement for adoption of a child of the subscriber or enrolled spouse, also applies to children placed in foster
         care                                                                       
       • Loss of employer sponsored coverage                                        
       • A loss of Medicaid or other public program providing health benefits       
                                                                                    
       • A loss of coverage due to a dissolution of marriage or termination of domestic partnership
       • A loss of coverage due to a change in residence and your existing health plan does not provide coverage in
         your new area                                                              
       • Loss of COBRA benefits                                                     
       • Loss of coverage on The Exchange, due to an error by The Exchange, the issuer or HHS
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940004 (01-2024)          101                                        
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       • The loss of coverage under a Student Insurance plan (involuntary or voluntary)
       • Experience an exceptional circumstance that prevented enrollment in coverage
       • Victims of domestic abuse/violence or spousal abandonment and their dependents
                                                                                    
       Enrollment is subject to verification at the time of application. See premera.com or if you enrolled through The
       Exchange, contact The Exchange for information on required documentation for your qualifying event.
       When we receive your completed enrollment application, required documentation and any required subscription
       charges within 60 days of the qualifying event, coverage under this plan will become effective on the first of the
       month following receipt of your enrollment application or we are notified of enrollment by The Exchange.
       If we don't receive your completed enrollment application within 60 days of the date of the qualifying event, see
       Open Enrollment.                                                             
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       WHEN COVERAGE  BEGINS                                                        
        Subscriber and   If you enrolled through The Exchange, your coverage will begin as of the effective
        Existing Dependents date established by The Exchange.                       
                         If you enrolled directly with us, initial coverage on this plan will become effective as
                         follows:                                                   
                         • For applications received by the 14th day of the month, coverage will be effective
                          on the 15th day of that month. In this instance, a pro-rated subscription charge
                          will be applied for the first partial month of coverage.  
                         • For applications received between the 15th and the last day of the month,
                          coverage will be effective on the first day of the following month.
                         The receipt date will be the date of postmark or the date of delivery to us, whichever
                         is earlier.                                                
                                                                                    
        New Dependents   You must submit your enrollment request for new dependents to us or The
                         Exchange timely. The effective date of coverage will be determined by the receipt
                         date of your approved application and required subscription charges.
                         An enrollment application isn't required when subscription charges being paid for
                         dependents already include coverage for additional new dependent children, but we
                         may request additional information if necessary to establish eligibility of dependent
                         children.                                                  
        Newborn Children Newborn children are automatically covered for the first 3 weeks from birth when
                         the mother is covered on the plan. Beyond the first 3 weeks, you must submit an
                         application to us or contact The Exchange to enroll the child. The child may be
                         enrolled as a dependent under a current subscriber or on their own plan as a single
                         subscriber. The effective date will be the child's date of birth only if we receive a
                         completed application within 60 days of birth. Otherwise, coverage will become
                         effective as described under Eligibility and Enrollment.   
        Adoptive Children The effective date will be the date of placement with the subscriber only if
                         application to us or The Exchange is received timely. Otherwise, coverage will
                         become effective as described under Eligibility and Enrollment.
        Domestic Partners and Coverage will be effective for the domestic partner and/or their children upon our
        Their Children   acceptance and approval of the completed application or notification of enrollment
                         through The Exchange and payment of required subscription charges as described
                         under When Coverage Begins.                                
        Legal Guardianship Children who are legal dependents of the subscriber or spouse and meet all stated
                         eligibility requirements will be accepted for coverage when we receive the
                         completed application or notification of enrollment through The Exchange and
                         copies of the final court-ordered guardianship.            
                         The effective date will be the date of the guardianship order if the approved
                         application is received within 60 days of that date. Otherwise, coverage will become
                         effective as described under Eligibility and Enrollment.   
       49831WA1940004 (01-2024)          102                                        
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
        Medical Child Support An application must be submitted to us or enrollment through The Exchange, along
        Orders           with a copy of the medical child support order. The application may be submitted by
                         the subscriber, the child's custodial parent, or a state agency administering
                         Medicaid. The effective date will be the date of the order only if the application is
                         received within 60 days of the date of the order. Otherwise, coverage will become
                         effective as stated under Eligibility and Enrollment.      
        Due to Marriage  The effective date will be the date of marriage only if the approved application is
                         received or enrollment is done through The Exchange within 60 days of the date of
                         the marriage. Otherwise, coverage will become effective as described under
                         Eligibility and Enrollment.                                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       OTHER PROVISIONS AFFECTING COVERAGE                                          
                                                                                    
        Term of Contract This contract is guaranteed renewable except as stated under Events That End
                         Coverage.                                                  
                                                                                    
        Subscription Charges This contract is issued in consideration of an accepted application or notification of
        and Grace Period enrollment through The Exchange and the payment of the required subscription
                         charges. Subscription charges are not accepted from third party payers including
                         employers, providers, non-profit or government agencies, except as required by law.
        Federal Government If the federal government is paying a portion of your subscription charge as an
        Assistance with  advance payment of the premium tax credit, you have a different grace period to
        Subscription Charges pay your portion of the subscription charges. If we receive an advance payment of
                         premium tax credit from the government for you, you have up to a three-month
                         grace period to pay all outstanding subscription charges.  
                         • For the first month of the three-month grace period, we will continue to process
                          and pay claims for covered services under this plan.      
                         • Beginning on the first day of the second month and through the last day of the
                          third month, we will pend all your claims.                
                          If we have not received all outstanding subscription charges by the last day of the
                          third month, this contract will, without further notice, terminate as of the last day
                          of the first month of the grace period. We will also deny all pended claims for
                          services you received in the second and third months of the grace period. Note
                          that providers can then seek reimbursement directly from you for those services,
                          and they would not be considered covered under this plan. 
                          If after termination you wish to re-enroll on an individual plan offered by us or one
                          of our related companies, we reserve the right to require you to pay any unpaid
                          subscription charges that were due during the 12-month period prior to your re-
                          application for coverage.                                 
        No Federal       For members whose subscription charges are not subsidized by the federal
        Government       government, you have a 1-month grace period to pay subsequent subscription
        Assistance with  charges. If a payment is not received by the end of the grace period, your coverage
        Subscription Charges will terminate as of the last day of the period for which subscription charges were
                         paid. Claims for services received after the termination date will be denied.
                         Providers can seek reimbursement directly from you for those services.
                         Consistent with state law, we reserve the right to revise subscription charges
                         annually upon written notice (see Notice). Such notice will be provided to the
                         subscriber. Such changes will become effective on the date stated in the notice,
                         and payment of the revised subscription charges will constitute acceptance of the
                         change.                                                    
                         Subscription charges will also be revised in the following situations:
                         • A change in the number of enrolled dependents, except when subscription
                          charges being paid for dependent children already include additional dependent
                          children.                                                 
       49831WA1940004 (01-2024)          103                                        
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                         • The subscriber enrolls in a different Premera individual dental plan.
                         • A change in government requirements affecting the health plan, including a
                          mandated change in benefits, eligibility or other plan provisions, or imposition or
                          changes to an assessment or tax on our revenue.           
                         Subscription charges may also be adjusted outside of the plan renewal when the
                         federal or state government requirements that affect the plan are changed, such as
                         the government ceasing payments to us for advance premium tax credits, cost
                         share reduction payments, or other monies owed to Premera. 
                                                                                    
       Termination of Coverage                                                      
                                                                                    
       EVENTS THAT END COVERAGE                                                     
       Coverage under this contract is guaranteed renewable and will not be terminated, except as described below.
                                                                                    
       Termination by the Subscriber                                                
       The subscriber may terminate this contract by:                               
       • Contacting us or The Exchange, (if you enrolled through The Exchange). For coverage purchased directly from
         us, termination will be effective on the last day for which subscription charges were paid.
       • Failing to pay the required subscription charges when due or within the grace period
                                                                                    
       Termination by Us                                                            
       Coverage under this contract will terminate when any of the events specified below occurs.
       • Nonpayment of subscription charges. Coverage will end without notice as of the last date for which subscription
         charges were paid.                                                         
       • Violation of published policies of Premera that have been approved by the Washington State Insurance
         Commissioner                                                               
       • A member no longer lives in Washington State                               
       • A member commits fraudulent acts as to Premera                             
                                                                                    
       • A member materially breaches the contract which includes, but is not limited to, failure to continue to meet the
         provisions stated under Eligibility and Enrollment                         
       • Change or implementation of federal or state laws that no longer permit the continued offering of this contract
       • We discontinue this contract to all those covered under this contract as allowed by law. In such instance you
         will be given at least a 90-day notification of the discontinuation. If we discontinue this contract, you may apply
         for any other individual plan currently offered for sale by us or The Exchange.
       • We withdraw from a service area or from a segment of a service area as allowed by law
       • Any other reason allowed by state or federal law                           
       In the event this coverage under this contract is terminated, Premera will refund any subscription charges
       received for dates beyond the contract termination date stated in our notice to you (see Notice).
                                                                                    
       Continuation of Coverage                                                     
                                                                                    
       There are specific requirements, time frames and conditions which must be followed in order to be eligible for
       continuation of coverage and which are generally outlined below.             
                                                                                    
        Continued Eligibility Coverage may continue beyond the limiting age (see Dependent Eligibility) for a
        for a Disabled Child child who cannot support themselves because of a developmental or physical
                         disability. The child will continue to be eligible if all the following are met:
                         • The child became disabled before reaching the limiting age.
                         • The child is incapable of self-sustaining employment by reason of developmental
                          or physical disability and is chiefly dependent upon the subscriber for support and
                          maintenance.                                              
                         • The subscriber is covered under this plan.               
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940004 (01-2024)          104                                        
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                         • The child's subscription charges, if any, continue to be paid.
                         • Within 31 days of the child reaching the limiting age, the subscriber furnishes us
                          with a Request for Certification of Disabled Dependent form. We must approve
                          the request for certification for coverage to continue.   
                         • The subscriber provides us with proof of the child's disability and dependent
                          status when we request it. We won't ask for proof more often than once a year
                          after the 2-year period following the child's attainment of the limiting age.
        Continuation of  Dependent(s) may continue coverage on an identical contract in the following
        Coverage on an   situations:                                                
        Identical Contract                                                          
                         • If the subscriber terminates coverage for any reason, or in the event of death of
                          the subscriber or divorce of the subscriber and spouse, enrolled dependents
                          under this plan may continue under an identical contract. The dependent(s) must
                          meet all of the eligibility requirements as specified in this contract. If the spouse
                          continues coverage, the spouse's enrollment status will change from dependent
                          to subscriber and any enrolled child may be covered under the spouse's
                          continued coverage. Subscription charges will be assessed at the appropriate
                          rate. If there is no spouse, or the spouse does not continue coverage, each
                          enrolled child may continue coverage as a subscriber, and subscription charges
                          will be assessed at the appropriate subscriber rate.      
                         • A dependent child, who no longer is eligible as a dependent under this contract
                          for reasons such as reaching the maximum dependent age, may continue
                          coverage on an identical contract as a subscriber, providing all eligibility
                          requirements, as specified in this contract, are met. The child's enrollment status
                          will change from dependent to subscriber, and subscription charges will be
                          assessed at the appropriate subscriber rate.              
                         To continue coverage, an enrollment application must be submitted to us or you
                         must contact The Exchange prior to the date coverage would end as a dependent.
       Other Plan Information                                                       
       This section tells you about how this plan is administered. It also includes information about federal and state
       requirements we must follow and other information we must provide to you. If you have any questions about your
       plan or want to request additional information or forms, please call customer service or go to our website at
       premera.com. Information about your plan is provided to you free of charge.  
                                                                                    
        Benefit Modifications From time to time, we may change the terms of this contract. You will receive prior
                         written notice of any changes, and 30 days prior written notice of changes to
                         subscription charges (see Notice).                         
                         If the terms of this contract change, those changes will not affect benefits to a
                         member during confinement in a facility. Benefit changes will take effect when you
                         leave the facility, or from any other facility you are transferred to, as long as you are
                         still covered under this plan.                             
                         No producer or agent of Premera or any other person, is authorized to make any
                         changes, additions, or deletions to this contract or to waive any provision of this
                         contract. Changes, alterations, additions, or exclusions can only be done with the
                         signature of an officer of Premera.                        
        Benefits Not     No person other than you is entitled to receive the benefits of this contract. Such
        Transferable     right to these benefits is not transferable. Fraudulent use of such benefits will result
                         in cancellation of your eligibility under this contract and appropriate legal action.
        Conformity with the The contract is issued and delivered in the State of Washington and is governed by
        Law              the laws of the State of Washington, except to the extent pre-empted by federal law.
                         If any provision of the contract or any amendment thereto is deemed to be in conflict
                         with applicable state or federal laws or regulations, upon discovery of such conflict
                         the contract will be administered in conformance with the requirements of such laws
                         and regulations as of their effective date.                
       49831WA1940004 (01-2024)          105                                        
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
        Entire Contract  The entire contract between you and us consists of all of the following:
                                                                                    
                         • The contract                                             
                         • All applications used to apply for coverage              
                         • All attachments, endorsements, and riders included or issued hereafter
                         No representative of Premera Blue Cross or any other entity is authorized to make
                         any changes, additions or deletions to the contract or to waive any provision of this
                         plan. Changes, alterations, additions or exclusions can only be done with the
                         signature of an officer of Premera Blue Cross.             
                         If there is a language conflict in the contract, the benefit booklet (as amended by
                         any attachments, endorsements or riders) will govern.      
                                                                                    
        Evidence of Medical We have the right to require proof of medical necessity for any services or supplies
        Necessity        you receive before we provide benefits under this plan. This proof may be submitted
                         by you, or on your behalf by your healthcare providers. No benefits will be available
                         if the proof isn't provided or acceptable to us.           
        Health Care Providers All health care providers who provide services and supplies to a member do so as
        - Independent    independent contractors. None of the provisions of this contract are intended to
        Contractors      create, nor shall they be deemed or construed to create, any employment or agency
                         relationship between us and the provider of service other than that of independent
                         contractors.                                               
        ID Card          If you need a replacement Premera ID card, call our customer service or visit our
                         website at premera.com. If coverage under the contract terminates, your Premera
                         ID card will no longer be valid.                           
        Independent      The subscriber hereby expressly acknowledges the understanding that this contract
        Corporation      constitutes a contract solely between the subscriber and Premera Blue Cross.
                         The subscriber further acknowledges and agrees that they have not entered into
                         this contract based upon representations by any person other than us, and that no
                         person, entity, or organization other than us shall be held accountable or liable to
                         the subscriber for any of our obligations to the subscriber created under this
                         contract. This provision shall not create any additional obligations whatsoever on
                         our part other than those obligations created under other provisions of this contract.
        Individual Medical This contract is sold and issued in Washington State as an individual medical plan.
        Plan             It is not issued for use as an employer-sponsored or group health plan. Premera
                         specifically disclaims any liability for state or federal group plan requirements.
                         This contract does not replace, affect, or supplement any state or federal
                         requirement for worker's compensation, employer's liability, or similar insurance.
                         When an employer is required by law to provide or has the option to provide
                         worker's compensation or similar insurance and does not provide such coverage for
                         its employees, the benefits available under this plan will not be provided for
                         conditions arising out of the course of employment which are or would be covered
                         by such insurance.                                         
        Intentionally False or If this plan's benefits are paid in error due to a member's or provider's commission
        Misleading Statements of fraud or providing any intentionally false or misleading statements, we'll be
                         entitled to recover these amounts. See Right of Recovery later in this section.
                         And, if a member commits fraud or makes any intentionally false or misleading
                         statements on any application or enrollment form that affects the member's
                         acceptability for coverage, we may, at our option:         
                         • Deny the member's claim                                  
                         • Reduce the amount of benefits provided for the member's claim
                         • Void the member's coverage under this plan (void means to cancel coverage
                          back to its effective date, as if it had never existed at all)
                         Finally, statements that are fraudulent, intentionally false or misleading on any form
                         required by us, that affect the acceptability of the Member or the risks to be
       49831WA1940004 (01-2024)          106                                        
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                         assumed by us, may cause the contract for this plan to be voided.
                         Note: We cannot void your coverage based on a misrepresentation you made
                         unless you have performed an act or practice that constitutes fraud; or made an
                         intentional misrepresentation of material fact that affects your acceptability for
                         coverage.                                                  
        Limitations of Liability We are not legally responsible for any of the following:
                         • Epidemics, disasters, or other situations that prevent members from getting the
                          care they need                                            
                                                                                    
                         • The quality of services or supplies that members get from providers, or the
                          amounts charged by providers                              
                         • Providing any type of hospital, medical, dental, vision, or similar care
                         • Harm that comes to a member while in a provider's care   
                         • Amounts in excess of the actual cost of services and supplies
                         • Amounts in excess of this plan's maximums. This includes recovery under any
                          claim of breach                                           
                         • General or special damages including, without limitation, alleged pain, suffering,
                          mental anguish or consequential damages                   
        Member Cooperation You're under a duty to cooperate with us in a timely and appropriate manner in our
                         administration of benefits. You're also under a duty to cooperate with us in the event
                         of a lawsuit.                                              
                                                                                    
        Newborn's and    Group health plans and health insurance issuers generally may not, under federal
        Mother's Health  law, restrict benefits for any hospital length of stay in connection with childbirth for
        Protection Act   the mother or newborn child to less than 48 hours following a vaginal delivery, or
                         less than 96 hours following a cesarean section. However, federal law generally
                         does not prohibit the mother's or newborn's attending provider, after consulting with
                         the mother, from discharging the mother or her newborn earlier than 48 hours (or 96
                         hours as applicable). In any case, group health plans and health insurance issuers
                         may not, under federal law, require that a provider obtain authorization from the plan
                         or the insurance issuer for prescribing a length of stay not in excess of the 48 hours
                         (or 96 hours).                                             
        Nonwaiver        No delay or failure when exercising or enforcing any right under this contract shall
                         constitute a waiver or relinquishment of that right and no waiver or any default under
                         this contract shall constitute or operate as a waiver of any subsequent default. No
                         waiver of any provision of this contract shall be deemed to have been made unless
                         and until such waiver has been reduced to writing and signed by the party waiving
                         the provision.                                             
        Notice           We may be required to send you certain notices. We will consider such a notice to
                         be delivered if we mail it to your most recent address in our records. The date of the
                         postmark is the delivery date.                             
                         If you are required to send notice to us, the postmark date will be the delivery date.
                         If not postmarked, the delivery date will be the date we receive it.
        Notice of Information We may collect, use, or disclose certain information about you. This protected
        Use and Disclosure personal information (PPI) may include health information, or personal data such as
                         your address, telephone number or Social Security number. We may receive this
                         information from, or release it to, healthcare providers, insurance companies, or
                         other sources.                                             
                         This information is collected, used or disclosed for conducting routine business
                         operations such as:                                        
                         • Determining your eligibility for benefits and paying claims. (Genetic information is
                          not collected or used for underwriting or enrollment purposes.)
                         • Coordinating benefits with other healthcare plans        
                         • Conducting care management, case management, or quality reviews
       49831WA1940004 (01-2024)          107                                        
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                         • Fulfilling other legal obligations that are specified under the contract
                                                                                    
                         This information may also be collected, used or disclosed as required or permitted
                         by law.                                                    
                         To safeguard your privacy, we take care to ensure that your information remains
                         confidential by having a company confidentiality policy and by requiring all
                         employees to sign it.                                      
                         If a disclosure of PPI isn't related to a routine business function, we remove
                         anything that could be used to easily identify you or we obtain your prior written
                         authorization.                                             
                         You have the right to request inspection and /or amendment of records retained by
                         us that contain your PPI. Please contact our customer service department and ask
                         a representative to mail a request form to you.            
        Notice of Other  As a condition of receiving benefits under this plan, you must notify us of:
        Coverage                                                                    
                         • Any legal action or claim against another party for a condition or injury for which
                          we provide benefits; and the name and address of that party's insurance carrier.
                         • The name and address of any insurance carrier that provides:
                            •  Personal injury protection (PIP)                     
                            •  Underinsured motorist coverage                       
                            •  Uninsured motorist coverage                          
                            •  Any other insurance under which you are or may be entitled to recover
                               compensation                                         
                         • The name of any other group or individual insurance plans that cover you.
        Rights of Assignment Notwithstanding any other provision in this contract, and subject to any limitations of
                         state or federal law, in the event that we merge or consolidate with another
                         corporation or entity, or do business with another entity under another name, or
                         transfer this contract to another corporation or entity, this contract shall remain in full
                         force and effect, and bind the subscriber and the successor corporation or other
                         entity.                                                    
                         We agree to guarantee that all transferred obligations will be performed by the
                         successor corporation or entity according to the terms and conditions of this
                         contract. In consideration for this guarantee, the subscriber consents to the transfer
                         of this contract to such corporation or entity.            
        Right of Recovery We have the right to recover amounts we paid that exceed the amount for which we
                         are liable. Such amounts may be recovered from the subscriber or any other payee,
                         including a provider. Or, such amounts may be deducted from future benefits of the
                         subscriber or any of their dependents (even if the original payment was not made
                         on that member's behalf) when the future benefits would otherwise have been paid
                         directly to the subscriber or to a provider that does not have a contract with us.
                         In addition, if this contract is voided as described in Intentionally False or
                         Misleading Statements, we have the right to recover the amount of any claims we
                         paid under this plan and any administrative costs we incurred to pay those claims.
        Right to and Payment Benefits of this plan are available only to members. Except as required by law, we
        of Benefits      won't honor any attempted assignment, garnishment or attachment of any right of
                         this plan. In addition, members may not assign a payee for claims, payments or any
                         other rights of this plan.                                 
                         At our option only and in accordance with the law, we may pay the benefits of this
                         plan to:                                                   
                         • The subscriber                                           
                         • A provider                                               
                                                                                    
                         • Another health insurance carrier                         
                         • The member                                               
       49831WA1940004 (01-2024)          108                                        
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                         • Another party legally entitled under federal or state medical child support laws
                         • Jointly to any of the above                              
                                                                                    
                         Payment to any of the above satisfies our obligation as to payment of benefits.
        Severability     Invalidation of any term or provision herein by judgment or court order shall not
                         affect any other provisions, which shall remain in full force and effect.
        Venue            All suits or legal proceedings brought against us by you or anyone claiming any
                         right under this plan must be filed:                       
                         • Within 3 years of the date we denied, in writing, the rights or benefits claimed
                          under this plan, or of the completion date of the independent review process if
                          applicable                                                
                         • In the state of Washington or the state where you reside or are employed
                                                                                    
                         All suits or legal or arbitration proceedings brought by us will be filed within the
                         appropriate statutory period of limitation, and you agree that venue, at our option,
                         will be in King County, the state of Washington.           
        Women's Health and Your plan, as required by the Women's Health and Cancer Rights Act of 1998
        Cancer Rights Act of (WHCRA), provides benefits for mastectomy-related services including all stages of
        1998             reconstruction and surgery to achieve symmetry between the breasts, prostheses,
                         and complications resulting from a mastectomy, including lymphedemas. See
                         Covered Services.                                          
        Out-of-Area Care As a member of the Blue Cross Blue Shield Association ("BCBSA"), Premera Blue
                         Cross has arrangements with other Blue Cross and Blue Shield Licensees ("Host
                         Blues") for care outside our service area. These arrangements are called "Inter-Plan
                         Arrangements". Our Inter-Plan Arrangements help you get covered services from
                         providers within the geographic area of a Host Blue.       
                         The BlueCard® Program is the Inter-Plan Arrangement that applies to most claims
                         from Host Blues' in-network providers. The Host blue is responsible for its in-
                         network providers and handles all interactions with them. Other Inter-Plan
                         Arrangements apply to providers that are not in the Host Blues' networks (non-
                         contracted providers). This Out-Of-Area Care section explains how the plan pays
                         both types of providers.                                   
                         When you get services through these Inter-Plan Arrangements, it does not change
                         what the plan covers, benefit levels, or any stated eligibility requirements. Please
                         call us if your care needs a prior authorization.          
                         We process claims for the Prescription Drugs benefit directly, not through an Inter-
                         Plan Arrangement.                                          
        BlueCard Program Except for copays, we will base the amount you must pay for claims from Host
                         Blues' in-network providers on the lower of:               
                         • The provider's billed charges for your covered services; or
                         • The allowed amount that the Host Blue made available to us.
                         Often, the "allowed amount" is a discount that reflects an actual price that the Host
                         Blue pays to the provider. Sometimes it is an estimated price that takes into account
                         a special arrangement with a single provider or a group of providers. In other cases,
                         it may be an average price, based on a discount that results in expected average
                         savings for services from similar types of providers.      
                         Host Blues may use a number of factors to set estimated or average prices. These
                         may include settlements, incentive payments, and other credits or charges. Host
                         Blues may also need to adjust their prices to correct their estimates of past prices.
                         However, we will not apply any further adjustments to the price of a claim that has
                         already been paid.                                         
                         Clark County Providers Services in Clark County, Washington are processed
                         through the BlueCard Program. Some providers in Clark County do have contracts
                         with us. These providers will submit claims directly to us, and benefits will be based
       49831WA1940004 (01-2024)          109                                        
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                         on our allowed amount for the covered service or supply.   
                         Taxes, Surcharges and Fees                                 
                                                                                    
                         A law or regulation may require a surcharge, tax or other fee be added to the price
                         of a covered service. If that happens, we will add that surcharge, tax or fee to the
                         allowed amount for the claim.                              
                         Non-Contracted Providers                                   
                         It could happen that you receive covered services from providers outside our
                         service area that do not have a contract with the Host Blue. In most cases we will
                         base the amount you pay for such services on either our allowed amount for these
                         providers or the pricing requirements under applicable law. See the definition of
                         "allowed amount" in Important Plan Information of this booklet for details on
                         allowed amounts.                                           
                         In these situations, you may owe the difference between the amount that the non-
                         contracted provider bills and the payment the plan makes for the covered services
                         as set forth above.                                        
                         Blue Cross Blue Shield Global® Core                        
                         If you are outside the United States, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands (the
                         "BlueCard service area"), you may be able to take advantage of Blue Cross Blue
                         Shield Global® Core. Blue Cross Blue Shield Global® Core is unlike the BlueCard
                         Program in the BlueCard service area in some ways. For instance, although Blue
                         Cross Blue Shield Global® Core helps you access a provider network, you will most
                         likely have to pay the provider and send us the claim yourself in order for the plan to
                         reimburse you. See How Do I File A Claim for more information. However, if you
                         need hospital inpatient care, the service Center can often direct you to hospitals that
                         will not require you to pay in full at the time of service. In such cases, these
                         hospitals also send in the claim for you.                  
                         If you need to find a doctor or hospital outside the BlueCard service area, need help
                         submitting claims or have other questions, please call the service center at 1-800-
                         810-BLUE (2583). The center is open 24 hours a day, seven days a week. You can
                         also call collect at 1-804-673-1177.                       
                         More Questions                                             
                         If you have questions or need to find out more about the BlueCard Program or Blue
                         Cross Blue Shield Global® Core, please call our customer service department. You
                         can find a provider on premera.com or by calling 1-800-810-BLUE (2583).
        Additional Information Your benefit booklet provides you with detailed information about this plan's
        About Your Coverage benefits, limitations and exclusions, how to obtain care and how to appeal our
                         decisions.                                                 
                         You may also ask for the following information:            
                         • Your right to seek and pay for care outside of this plan 
                                                                                    
                         • The plan's drug list (also called a "formulary")         
                         • How we pay providers                                     
                         • How providers' payment methods help promote good patient care
                         • A statement of all benefit payments in each year that have been counted toward
                          this plan's benefit limitations, visit, day, or dollar benefit maximums or other
                          overall limitations                                       
                         • How to file a complaint and a copy of our process for resolving complaints
                         • How to access specialists                                
                         • Obtaining a prior authorization when needed              
                                                                                    
                         • Accreditation by national managed care organizations     
                         • Use of the health employer data information set (HEDIS) to track performance
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940004 (01-2024)          110                                        
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                         If you want to receive this information, please go to our website at premera.com. If
                         you don't have access to the internet, please call customer service.
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       Definitions                                                                  
       The information here will help you understand what these words mean. We have the responsibility and authority
       to use our expertise and judgment to reasonably construe the terms of this contract as they apply to specific
       eligibility and claims determinations. For example, we use the medical judgment and expertise of Medical
       Directors to determine whether claims for benefits meet the definitions below of "Medical Necessity" or
       "Experimental/Investigative Services". We also have medical experts who determine whether care is custodial
       care or skilled care and reasonably interpret the level of care covered for your medical condition. This does not
       prevent you from exercising your rights you may have under applicable law to appeal, have independent review or
       bring a civil challenge to any eligibility or claims determinations.         
                                                                                    
        Accidental Injury      Physical harm caused by a sudden, unexpected event at a certain time
                               and place.                                           
                               Accidental injury does not mean any of the following:
                                                                                    
                               • An illness, except for infection of a cut or wound 
                               • Dental injuries caused by biting or chewing        
                               • Over-exertion or muscle strains                    
        Adverse Benefit Determination An adverse benefit determination means a decision to deny, reduce,
                               terminate or a failure to provide or to make payment, in whole or in part
                               for services. This includes:                         
                               • A member's or applicant's eligibility to be or stay enrolled in this plan or
                                 health insurance coverage                          
                               • A limitation on otherwise covered benefits         
                                                                                    
                               • A clinical review decision                         
                               • A decision that a service is experimental, investigative, not medically
                                 necessary or appropriate, or not effective         
                               • A decision related to compliance with protections against balance
                                 billing as defined by federal and state law        
        Affordable Care Act    The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 (Public Law 111-
                               148) as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of
                               2010 (Public Law 111-152).                           
        Ambulatory Surgical Center A healthcare facility that's licensed or certified as required by the state it
                               operates in and that meets all of the following:     
                               • It has an organized staff of physicians.           
                               • It has permanent facilities that are equipped and operated mainly for
                                 the purpose of performing surgical procedures.     
                               • It doesn't provide inpatient services or accommodations.
                                                                                    
        Applied Behavioral Analysis The design, implementation and evaluation of environmental
        (ABA)                  modifications, using behavioral stimuli and consequences, including
                               direct observation, measurement and functional analysis of the
                               relationship between environment and behavior to produce socially
                               significant improvement in human behavior or to prevent the loss of an
                               attained skill or function.                          
        Autism Spectrum Disorders Pervasive developmental disorders or a group of conditions having
                               substantially the same characteristics as pervasive developmental
                               disorders, as defined in the current Diagnostic and Statistical Manual
       49831WA1940004 (01-2024)          111                                        
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                               (DSM) published by the American Psychiatric Association, as amended
                               or reissued from time to time.                       
        Benefit                What this plan provides for a covered service. The benefits you get are
                               subject to this plan's cost shares.                  
        Benefit Booklet        Benefit booklet describes the benefits, limitations, exclusions, eligibility
                               and other coverage provisions included in this plan and is part of the
                               entire contract.                                     
                                                                                    
        Calendar Year          The period of 12 consecutive months that starts each January 1 at 12:01
                               a.m. and ends on December 31 at midnight.            
        Claim                  A request for payment from us according to the terms of this plan.
        Clinical Trials        An approved clinical trial means a scientific study using human subjects
                               designed to test and improve prevention, diagnosis, treatment, or
                               palliative care of cancer, or the safety and effectiveness of a drug,
                               device, or procedure used in the prevention, diagnosis, treatment, or
                               palliative care, if the study is approved by one of the following:
                               • An institutional review board that complies with that complies with
                                 federal standards for protecting human research subjects; and
                               • The United States Department of Health and Human Services,
                                 National Institutes of Health, or its institutes or centers
                               • The United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA)
                               • The United States Department of Defense            
                               • The United States Department of Veterans' Affairs  
                                                                                    
                               • A nongovernmental research entity abiding by current National
                                 Institutes of Health guidelines                    
        Complication of Pregnancy A medical condition related to pregnancy or childbirth that falls into one of
                               these three categories:                              
                               • A condition of the fetus that needs surgery while still in the womb (in
                                 utero)                                             
                               • A condition the mother has that is caused by the pregnancy. It is more
                                 difficult to treat because of the pregnancy. These conditions are
                                 limited to:                                        
                                 • Ectopic pregnancy                                
                                 • Hydatidiform mole/molar pregnancy                
                                 • Incompetent cervix that requires treatment       
                                 • Complications of administration of anesthesia or sedation during
                                  labor or delivery                                 
                                 • Obstetrical trauma, such as uterine rupture before onset or during
                                  labor                                             
                                 • Hemorrhage before or after delivery that requires medical or surgical
                                  treatment                                         
                                                                                    
                                 • Placental conditions that require surgical intervention
                                 • Preterm labor and monitoring                     
                                 • Toxemia                                          
                                 • Gestational diabetes                             
                                 • Hyperemesis gravidarum                           
                                 • Spontaneous miscarriage or missed abortion       
                                                                                    
                                 • A disease the mother has during pregnancy that is not caused by the
                                  pregnancy. The disease is made worse by pregnancy.
                               A complication of pregnancy needs services that are more than the usual
                               maternity services. This includes care before, during, and after birth
       49831WA1940004 (01-2024)          112                                        
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                               (normal or cesarean).                                
        Congenital Anomaly     A marked difference from the normal structure of an infant's body part
                               that's present from birth.                           
                                                                                    
        Contract               Contract describes the benefits, limitations, exclusions, eligibility, and
                               other coverage provisions included in this plan.     
        Cosmetic Services      Services that are performed to reshape normal structures of the body in
                               order to improve or alter your appearance and not primarily to restore an
                               impaired function of the body.                       
        Cost Share             The part of healthcare costs that you have to pay. These are
                               deductibles, coinsurance, and copayments.            
        Covered Service        A service, supply or drug that is eligible for benefits under the terms of
                               this Plan.                                           
                                                                                    
        Custodial Care         Any part of a service, procedure, or supply that is provided primarily:
                               • For ongoing maintenance of the member's health and not for its
                                 therapeutic value in the treatment of an illness or injury.
                               • To assist the member in meeting the activities of daily living.
                                 Examples are help in walking, bathing, dressing, eating, preparation of
                                 special diets, and supervision over self-administration of medication
                                 not requiring constant attention of trained medical personnel.
        Dependent              The subscriber's spouse or domestic partner and any children who are
                               on this plan.                                        
        Detoxification         Active medical management of substance intoxication or substance
                               withdrawal. Active medical management means repeated physical
                               examination appropriate to the substance taken, repeated vital sign
                               monitoring, and use of medication to manage intoxication or withdrawal.
                               Observation without active medical management, or any service that is
                               claimed to be detoxification but does not include active medical
                               management, is not detoxification.                   
        Doctor (also called "Physician") A state-licensed:                          
                               • Doctor of Medicine and Surgery (MD)                
                                                                                    
                               • Doctor of Osteopathy (DO)                          
                               In addition, professional services provided by one of the following types
                               of providers will be covered under this plan, but only when the provider is
                               providing a service within the scope of their state license; providing a
                               service or supply for which benefits are specified in this plan; and
                               providing a service for which benefits would be payable if the service
                               were provided by a doctor as defined above:          
                               • Chiropractor (DC)                                  
                               • Dentist (DDS or DMD)                               
                               • Optometrist (OD)                                   
                               • Podiatrist (DPM)                                   
                               • Psychologist                                       
                               • Nurse (RN and ARNP) licensed in Washington State   
                                                                                    
        Effective Date         The date your coverage under this plan begins.       
        Emergency Medical Condition A medical condition, mental health, or substance use disorder condition
        (also called "Emergency") which manifests itself by acute symptoms of sufficient severity, including,
                               but not limited to, severe pain or emotional distress, such that a prudent
                               layperson, who possesses an average knowledge of health and
                               medicine, could reasonably expect the absence of immediate attention to
                               result in 1) placing the health of the individual (or with respect to a
       49831WA1940004 (01-2024)          113                                        
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                               pregnant member, the member's health or the unborn child) in serious
                               jeopardy; 2) serious impairment to bodily functions; or 3) serious
                               dysfunction of any bodily organ or part.             
                               Examples of an emergency medical condition are severe pain, suspected
                               heart attacks and fractures. Examples of a non-emergency medical
                               condition are minor cuts and scrapes.                
        Emergency Services     • A medical screening examination to evaluate an emergency that is
                                 within the capability of the emergency department of a hospital,
                                 including ancillary services given in an emergency department.
                                 Emergency services are also provided by a behavioral health
                                 emergency service provider, including a crisis stabilization unit, triage
                                 facility, mobile rapid response crisis team, and an agency certified by
                                 the Department of Health.                          
                               • Examination and treatment as required to stabilize a patient to the
                                 extent the examination and treatment are within the capability of the
                                 staff and facilities available at a hospital. Stabilize means to provide
                                 medical, mental health, or substance use disorder treatment
                                 necessary to ensure that, within reasonable medical probability, no
                                 material deterioration of an emergency condition is likely to occur
                                 during or to result from the transfer of the patient from a facility; and for
                                 a pregnant member in active labor, to perform the delivery.
                               • Ambulance transport, as needed, in support of the services above.
        Endorsement            A document that is attached to and made a part of this contract. An
                               endorsement changes the terms of the contract.       
        Essential Health Benefits Benefits defined by the Secretary of Health and Human Services that
                               shall include at least the following general categories: ambulatory patient
                               services, emergency services, hospitalization, maternity and newborn
                               care, mental health and substance use disorders services, including
                               behavioral health treatment, prescription drugs, rehabilitative and
                               habilitative services and devices, laboratory services, preventive and
                               wellness services and chronic disease management and pediatric
                               services, including oral and vision care. The designation of benefits as
                               essential shall be consistent with the requirements and limitations set
                               forth under the Affordable Care Act and applicable regulations as
                               determined by the Secretary of Health and Human Services.
        Experimental/Investigative A treatment, procedure, equipment, drug, drug usage, medical device or
        Services               supply that meets one or more of the following criteria:
                               • A drug or device which cannot be lawfully marketed without the
                                 approval of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and does not have
                                 approval on the date the service is provided.      
                               • It is subject to oversight by an Institutional Review Board.
                               • There is no reliable evidence showing that the service is effective in
                                 clinical diagnosis, evaluation, management or treatment of the
                                 condition.                                         
                               • It is the subject of ongoing clinical trials to determine its maximum
                                 tolerated dose, toxicity, safety or efficacy.      
                               • Evaluation of reliable evidence shows that more research is necessary
                                 before the service can be classified as equally or more effective than
                                 conventional therapies.                            
                               Reliable evidence means only published reports and articles in
                               authoritative medical and scientific literature and assessments and
                               coverage recommendations published by the Blue Cross Blue Shield
                               Association Technical Evaluation Center (TEC).       
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940004 (01-2024)          114                                        
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
        Explanation of Benefits An explanation of benefits is a statement that shows what you will owe
                               and what we will pay for healthcare services received. It's not a bill.
                                                                                    
        Facility (Medical Facility) A hospital, skilled nursing facility, approved treatment facility for
                               substance use disorder, state-approved institution for treatment of mental
                               or psychiatric conditions, or hospice. Not all health care facilities are
                               covered under this contract.                         
        Health Care Benefit Managers Health Care Benefit Managers (HCBM): A person or entity that
                               specializes in managing certain services for a health carrier or employee
                               benefits programs. An HCBM may also make determinations for
                               utilization of benefits and prior authorization for health care services,
                               drugs, and supplies. These include pharmacy, radiology, laboratory, and
                               mental health benefit managers.                      
        Home Health Agency     An organization that provides covered home health care services to a
                               member.                                              
        Home Medical Equipment (HME) Equipment ordered by a healthcare provider for everyday or extended
                               use to treat an illness or injury. HME may include: oxygen equipment,
                               wheelchairs or crutches. This is also sometimes known as "Durable
                               Medical Equipment" or "DME".                         
        Hospice                A facility or program designed to provide a caring environment for
                               supplying the physical and emotional needs of the terminally ill.
        Hospital               A healthcare facility that meets all of these criteria:
                               • It operates legally as a hospital in the state where it is located.
                               • It has facilities for the diagnosis, treatment and acute care of injured
                                 and ill persons as inpatients.                     
                               • It has a staff of providers that provides or supervises the care.
                                                                                    
                               • It has 24-hour nursing services provided by or supervised by
                                 registered nurses.                                 
                               A facility is not considered a hospital if it operates mainly for any of the
                               purposes below:                                      
                               • As a rest home, nursing home, or convalescent home 
                               • As a residential treatment center or health resort 
                               • To provide hospice care for terminally ill patients
                               • To care for the elderly                            
                                                                                    
                               • To treat substance use disorder or tuberculosis    
        Illness                A sickness, disease, or medical condition.           
        Injury                 Physical harm caused by a sudden event at a specific time and place. It
                               is independent of illness, except for infection of a cut or wound.
                                                                                    
        In-Network Pharmacy (In- A licensed pharmacy which contracts with us or our Pharmacy Benefit
        Network Retail/In-Network Mail Manager to provide prescription drug benefits.
        Order Pharmacy)                                                             
        Inpatient              Confined in a medical facility or as an overnight bed patient.
        Lifetime Maximum       The maximum amount that your insurance benefit will provide during
                               your lifetime.                                       
        Long-term Care Facility A nursing facility licensed under chapter 18.51 RCW, continuing care
                               retirement community defined under RCW 70.38.023, or assisted living
                               facility licensed under chapter 18.20 RCW.           
                                                                                    
        Maternity Care         Health services you get during pregnancy (before, during, and after birth)
                               or for any condition caused by pregnancy. This includes the entire time
                               you are pregnant and up to 45 days after birth.      
       49831WA1940004 (01-2024)          115                                        
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
        Medical Equipment      Mechanical equipment that can stand repeated use and is used in
                               connection with the direct treatment of an illness or injury.
                                                                                    
        Medically Necessary and Services a provider, exercising prudent clinical judgment, would use with
        Medical Necessity      a patient to prevent, evaluate, diagnose or treat an illness or injury or its
                               symptoms. These services must:                       
                               • Agree with generally accepted standards of medical practice
                               • Be clinically appropriate in type, frequency, extent, site and duration.
                                 They must also be considered effective for the patient's illness, injury
                                 or disease                                         
                               • Not be mostly for the convenience of the patient, physician, or other
                                 healthcare provider. They do not cost more than another service or
                                 series of services that are at least as likely to produce equivalent
                                 therapeutic or diagnostic results for the diagnosis or treatment of that
                                 patient's illness, injury or disease.              
                               For these purposes, "generally accepted standards of medical practice"
                               means standards that are based on credible scientific evidence
                               published in peer reviewed medical literature. This published evidence is
                               recognized by the relevant medical community, physician specialty
                               society recommendations and the views of physicians practicing in
                               relevant clinical areas and any other relevant factors.
        Member (also called “You” or A person covered under this plan as a subscriber or dependent.
        “Your”)                                                                     
        Mental Health Conditions A condition that is listed in the most recent edition of the Diagnostic and
                               Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM). This does not include
                               conditions and treatments for substance use disorder.
        Non-Contracted Provider A provider that does not have a contract with us or with any of the other
                               networks used by this plan.                          
        Non-Participating Provider A provider that is not in one of the provider networks stated in the How
                               Providers Affect Your Costs section or is not in any network of
                               Premera Blue Cross, Premera Blue Cross Blue Shield of Alaska, or the
                               local Blue Cross Blue Shield licensee.               
        Orthotic               A support or brace applied to an existing portion of the body for weak or
                               ineffective joints or muscles, to aid, restore or improve function.
        Outpatient             Treatment received in a setting other than as inpatient in a medical
                               facility.                                            
                                                                                    
        Outpatient Surgical Center A facility that’s licensed or certified as required by the state it operates in
                               and that meets all of the following:                 
                               • It has an organized staff of physicians.           
                               • It has permanent facilities that are equipped and operated primarily for
                                 the purpose of performing surgical procedures.     
                               • It doesn’t provide inpatient services or accommodations.
        Pharmacy Benefit Manager An entity that contracts with us to administer the Prescription Drugs
                               benefit under this plan.                             
                                                                                    
        Plan                   The benefits, terms, and limitations stated in this contract.
        Prescription Drugs     Any medical substance, including biological products, the label of which,
                               under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, as amended, is
                               required to bear the legend: “Caution: Federal law prohibits dispensing
                               without a prescription”. Benefits available under this plan will be provided
                               for “off-label” use, including administration, of prescription drugs for
                               treatment of a covered condition when use of the drug is recognized as
                               effective for treatment of such condition by:        
       49831WA1940004 (01-2024)          116                                        
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                 One of the following standard reference compendia: 
                                 • The American Hospital Formulary Service-Drug Information
                                 • The American Medical Association Drug Evaluation 
                                                                                    
                                 • The United States Pharmacopoeia-Drug Information 
                                 • Other authoritative compendia as identified from time to time by the
                                  Federal Secretary of Health and Human Services or the Insurance
                                  Commissioner                                      
                               If not recognized by one of the standard reference compendia cited
                               above, then recognized by the majority of relevant, peer-reviewed
                               medical literature (original manuscripts of scientific studies published in
                               medical or scientific journals after critical review for scientific accuracy,
                               validity and reliability by independent, unbiased experts).
                               “Off-label use” means the prescribed use of a drug that's other than that
                               stated in its FDA-approved labeling.                 
                               Benefits aren't available for any drug when the U.S. Food and Drug
                               Administration (FDA) has determined its use to be contra-indicated, or for
                               experimental or investigational drugs not otherwise approved for any
                               indication by the FDA.                               
        Primary Care Provider (PCP) A provider who both provides primary care and coordinates care to other
                               medical services.                                    
        Prior Authorization    Prior authorization is a process that requires you or a provider to follow to
                               determine if a service is a covered service and meets the requirements
                               for medical necessity, clinical appropriateness, level of care or
                               effectiveness. You must ask for prior authorization before the service is
                               delivered. See Prior Authorization for details.      
        Provider               A person who is in a provider category regulated under Title 18 or
                               Chapter 70.127 RCW to practice health care-related services consistent
                               with state law. Such persons are considered health care providers only
                               to the extent required by RCW 48.43.045 and only to the extent services
                               are covered by the provisions of this plan. Also included is an employee
                               or agent of such a person, acting in the course of and within the scope of
                               their employment.                                    
                               Providers also include certain health care facilities and other providers of
                               health care services and supplies, as specifically indicated in the provider
                               category listing below. Health care facilities that are owned and operated
                               by a political subdivision or instrumentality of the State of Washington
                               and other such facilities are included as required by state and federal
                               law.                                                 
                               Covered categories of providers regulated under Title 18 and Chapter
                               70.127 RCW, will include the following, provided that the services they
                               furnish are consistent with state law and the conditions of coverage
                               described elsewhere in this plan are met:            
                               The providers are:                                   
                               • Acupuncturists (LAc) (In Washington also called "East Asian Medicine
                                 Practitioners" (EAMP))                             
                               • Audiologists                                       
                               • Chiropractors (DC)                                 
                               • Counselors                                         
                               • Dental Hygienists (under the supervision of a DDS or DMD)
                                                                                    
                               • Dentists (DDS or DMD)                              
                               • Denturists                                         
                               • Dietitians and Nutritionists (D or CD, or CN)      
       49831WA1940004 (01-2024)          117                                        
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                               • Gynecologists (MD)                                 
                               • Home Health Care, Hospice and Home Care Agencies   
                                                                                    
                               • Marriage and Family Therapists                     
                               • Massage Practitioners (LMP)                        
                               • Midwives                                           
                               • Naturopathic Physicians (ND)                       
                               • Nurses (RN, LPN, ARNP, or NP)                      
                               • Nursing Homes                                      
                                                                                    
                               • Obstetricians (MD)                                 
                               • Occupational Therapists (OTA)                      
                               • Ocularists                                         
                               • Opticians (Dispensing)                             
                               • Optometrists (OD)                                  
                               • Osteopathic Physician Assistants (OPA) (under the supervision of a
                                 DO)                                                
                               • Osteopathic Physicians (DO)                        
                                                                                    
                               • Pharmacists (RPh)                                  
                               • Physical Therapists (LPT)                          
                               • Physician Assistants (PA) (under the supervision of an MD)
                               • Physicians (MD)                                    
                               • Podiatric Physicians (DPM)                         
                               • Psychologists (PhD)                                
                                                                                    
                               • Radiologic Technologists (CRT, CRTT, CRDT, CNMT)   
                               • Respiratory Care Practitioners                     
                               • Social Workers                                     
                               • Speech-Language Pathologists                       
                               The following healthcare facilities and other providers will also be
                               considered providers for the purposes of this plan when they meet the
                               requirements above.                                  
                               • Ambulance Companies                                
                                                                                    
                               • Ambulatory Diagnostic, Treatment and Surgical Facilities
                               • Audiologists (CCC-A or CCC-MSPA)                   
                               • Birthing Centers                                   
                               • Blood Banks                                        
                               • Board Certified Behavior Analyst (BCBA), certified by the Behavior
                                 Analyst Certification Board, and state-licensed in states that have
                                 specific licensure for behavior analysts           
                               • Community Mental Health Centers                    
                               • Drug and Alcohol Treatment Facilities              
                               • Medical Equipment Suppliers                        
                                                                                    
                               • Hospitals                                          
                               • Kidney Disease Treatment Centers (Medicare-certified)
                               • Psychiatric Hospitals                              
                               • Speech Therapists (Certified by the American Speech, Language and
                                 Hearing Association)                               
                               In states other than Washington, "provider" means healthcare
                               practitioners and facilities that are licensed or certified consistent with the
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940004 (01-2024)          118                                        
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                               laws and regulations of the state in which they operate.
                               This plan makes use of provider networks as explained in How
                               Providers Affect Your Costs.                         
                                                                                    
        Psychiatric Condition  A condition that is listed in the most recent edition of the Diagnostic and
                               Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM). This does not include
                               conditions and treatments for substance use disorder.
        Reconstructive Surgery Is surgery:                                          
                               • That restores features damaged as a result of injury or illness
                               • To correct a congenital deformity or anomaly       
        Rehabilitation Therapy Rehabilitation therapy or devices are medical services or devices
                               provided when medically necessary for restoration of bodily or cognitive
                               functions lost due to a medical condition.           
                                                                                    
                               Rehabilitation therapy includes physical therapy, occupational therapy,
                               and speech-language therapy when provided by a state-licensed or
                               state-certified provider acting within the scope of their license. Therapy
                               performed to maintain a current level of functioning without
                               documentation of significant improvement is considered maintenance
                               therapy and is not a rehabilitative service. Rehabilitative devices may be
                               limited to those that have FDA approval and are prescribed by a qualified
                               provider.                                            
        Service Area           The service area is the geographic area in Washington state in which an
                               individual must live in order to be eligible for this health plan. The service
                               area for this plan are the following counties:       
                               Franklin, Grays Harbor, King, Kitsap, Pacific, Pierce, Spokane and
                               Yakima.                                              
        Services               Procedures, surgeries, consultations, advice, diagnosis, referrals,
                               treatment, supplies, drugs, devices, technologies or places of service.
        Skilled Nursing Care   Medical care ordered by a physician and requiring the knowledge and
                               training of a licensed registered nurse.             
        Skilled Nursing Facility A medical facility licensed by the state to provide nursing services that
                               require the direction of a physician and nursing supervised by a
                               registered nurse, and that is approved by Medicare or would qualify for
                               Medicare approval if so requested.                   
        Specialist             A provider who focuses on a specific area of medicine or a group of
                               patients to diagnose, manage, prevent or treat certain types of symptoms
                               and conditions.                                      
        Spouse                 • An individual who is legally married to the subscriber.
                               • An individual who is a domestic partner of the subscriber or who meets
                                 the requirements for domestic partner coverage under this plan.
        Subscriber             The person in whose name the plan is issued.         
                                                                                    
        Subscription Charge    The monthly rates we establish as consideration for the benefits offered
                               under this contract.                                 
        Substance Use Disorder Substance-related disorders included in the most recent edition of the
        Conditions             Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders published by the
                               American Psychiatric Association. Substance use disorder is an addictive
                               relationship with any drug or alcohol characterized by a physical or
                               psychological relationship, or both, that interferes on a recurring basis
                               with an individual's social, psychological, or physical adjustment to
                               common problems. Substance use disorder does not include addiction
                               to or dependency on tobacco, tobacco products, or foods.
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940004 (01-2024)          119                                        
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
        Urgent Care            Treatment of unscheduled, drop-in patients who have minor illnesses
                               and injuries. These illnesses or injuries need treatment right away, but
                               they are not life-threatening. Examples are high fevers, minor sprains
                               and cuts, and ear, nose and throat infections. Urgent care is provided at
                               a medical facility that is open to the public and has extended hours.
        Virtual Care           Healthcare services provided through the use of online technology,
                               telephonic and secure messaging of member-initiated care from a
                               remote location (e.g. home) or an originating site with a provider that is
                               diagnostic and treatment focused.                    
                               Originating site: Hospital, rural health clinic, federally qualified health
                               center, physician’s or other health care provider office, community mental
                               health center, skilled nursing facility, home, or renal dialysis center,
                               except an independent renal dialysis center.         
        Visit                  A visit is one session of consultation, diagnosis, or treatment with a
                               provider. We count multiple visits with the same provider on the same
                               day as one visit. Two or more visits on the same date with different
                               providers count as separate visits.                  
        Washington Health Benefit The state authorized entity which determines eligibility to enroll in this
        Exchange ("The Exchange") plan.                                             
                                                                                    
        We, Us and Our         Premera Blue Cross                                   
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
       49831WA1940004 (01-2024)          120              045607 (08-01-2023)       
                                                                                    
                                                                                    